High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼￼The Bill is divided into two volumes. Volume I contains the Clauses to the Bill and Schedules 1 to 4. Volume 2 contains the remaining Schedules to the Bill (Schedules 5 to 31).EXPLANATORY NOTESExplanatory notes to the Bill, prepared by the Department for Transport, are published separately as Bill 2—EN.EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN RIGHTSSecretary Patrick McLoughlin has made the following statement under section 19(1)(a) of the Human Rights Act 1998:In my view the provisions of the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill are compatible with the Convention rights.Bill 2 55/4
High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼￼The Bill is divided into two volumes. Volume I contains the Clauses to the Bill and Schedules 1 to 4. Volume 2 contains the remaining Schedules to the Bill (Schedules 5 to 31).CONTENTSWorks1 Power to construct and maintain works for Phase One of High Speed 22 Further provision about works3 HighwaysCompulsory acquisition of land4 Power to acquire land compulsorily5 Acquisition of rights in land6 Acquisition of part of land7 Acquisition of airspace8 Acquisition of subsoil or under-surface9 Highway subsoil10 Termination of power to acquire landExtinction and exclusion of rights over land11 Extinction of rights over land12 Extinction of rights of statutory undertakers13 Exclusion of new rights of wayTemporary possession and use of land14 Temporary possession and use of land15 Use of roads16 Cranes17 Enforcement of restrictions on land use18 Compensation for injurious affectionPlanning19 Deemed planning permission20 Time limit on deemed planning permission21 Power to disapply deemed planning permission22 Parking at Birmingham Interchange: limit on deemed planning permission23 Development consentBill 255/4
￼iiHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼2425262728293031323334353637383940414243 4445 4647 4849 50 51 5253 54 55 56Listed buildingsAncient monumentsBurial grounds Consecrated land Commons and open spaces TreesOverhead lines Water Buildings Street works LorriesNoise Local ActsDeregulationRailway mattersObjectives of Office of Rail RegulationDisapplication of licensing requirement in pre-operational phase Disapplication of statutory closure provisionsOther railway legislation etcCo-operationTransfer of functions relating to worksNominated undertaker and other Phase One function-holdersNominated undertaker Transfer schemesStatutory undertakersExtension of planning permission for statutory undertakers Protective provisionsRegeneration and reinstatementCompulsory acquisition of land for regeneration or relocation Power to carry out reinstatement worksFurther high speed rail worksWorks in Scotland for Phase One purposesPower to apply Act to further high speed rail works Rights of entry for further high speed rail works Exercise of rights of entryThe CrownApplication of powers to Crown landHighways for which Secretary of State is highway authority Crown EstateRoyal parks
￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill iii Deposited plans and sections57 “Deposited plans” and “deposited sections”58 Correction of deposited plansMiscellaneous and general59 Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations60 Arbitration61 Notices and other documents￼62 “Phase One purposes”63 InterpretationInterpretationFinal64 Financial provision65 Commencement and short title￼Schedule 1 — Schedule 2 — Part 1 — Part 2 — Schedule 3 — Schedule 4 — Part 1 — Part 2 — Part 3 — Part 4 — Schedule 5 — Schedule 6 —Schedule 7 —Schedule 8 — Schedule 9 —Schedule 10 — Schedule 11 — Schedule 12 —Schedule 13 — Schedule 14 — Schedule 15 —Part 1 — Part 2 — Part 3 — Part 4 —Scheduled worksWorksFurther and supplementary provisionsExercise of powers of entry etcOverhead line diversionsHighwaysHighway accessInterference with highwaysConstruction and maintenance of highwaysTables relating to Part 2 of ScheduleAcquisition of land for particular purposesAcquisition of land: application of compulsory purchase legislationAcquisition of rights in land: power to impose restrictive covenantsLand in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislationAcquisition of part of land onlyLand with restrictions relating to surface acquisition Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire landRight to require acquisition where time limit extended Extinction of rights over landTemporary possession and use of landTemporary possession for construction of worksTemporary possession for maintenance of worksSuspension of rights and enforcementLand which may be occupied and used for construction of works
￼ivHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — ConditionsPart 2 — Qualifying authoritiesPart 3 — Approvals: supplementary Part 4 — Supplementary and generalSchedule 17 — Listed buildings Schedule 18 — Ancient monuments Schedule 19 — Burial grounds Schedule 20 — WaterSchedule 21 — BuildingsSchedule 22 — Party walls etcSchedule 23 — Street worksSchedule 24 — LorriesSchedule 25 — NoiseSchedule 26 — Local ActsSchedule 27 — Application of other railway legislation etcSchedule 28 — Arbitration between railway operatorsSchedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provisionSchedule 30 — Extension of planning permission for statutory undertakers Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 1 — Highways and trafficPart 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakersPart 3 — Electronic communications code networksPart 4 — Canal & River TrustPart 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries
￼￼￼￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill11Power to construct and maintain works for Phase One of High Speed 2(1)The nominated undertaker may construct and maintain the works specified in Schedule 1, being—(2) (3)In this Act, the works specified in Schedule 1 are called the “scheduled works”.Bill 255/4BILLATOMake provision for a railway between Euston in London and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Handsacre in Staffordshire, with a spur from Old Oak Common in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham to a junction with the Channel Tunnel Rail Link at York Way in the London Borough of Islington and a spur from Water Orton in Warwickshire to Curzon Street in Birmingham; and for connected purposes.BE IT ENACTED by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—Works(a) works for the construction of Phase One of High Speed 2, and 5(b) works consequent on, or incidental to, such works.In this Act “Phase One of High Speed 2” means a railway between Euston in London and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Handsacre in Staffordshire, with— 10(a) (b)a spur from Old Oak Common in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham to a junction with the Channel Tunnel Rail Link at York Way in the London Borough of Islington, anda spur from Water Orton in Warwickshire to Curzon Street in Birmingham.15
￼￼￼22(1)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼(2) (3)(4) (5)34(1)Further provision about worksThe nominated undertaker may, for the purposes of or in connection with the scheduled works or otherwise for Phase One purposes, do any of the following within the Act limits—(a) carry out and maintain railway electrification and signalling works; 5(b) make, provide and maintain all such approaches, bridges, subways, interchanges, roundabouts, turning places, lifts, stairs, escalators, ramps, passages, means of access, shafts, buildings, apparatus, plantand machinery as may be necessary or expedient;(c) construct, provide and maintain all such embankments, aprons, 10abutments, retaining walls, wing walls, culverts and other works as may be necessary or expedient;(d) demolish the whole or part of any building or structure;(e) alter or remove any structure erected upon any highway or adjoiningland; 15(f) alter, or alter the position of, railway track and any apparatusassociated with railway track;(g) alter, or alter the position of, other apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains and cables;(h) alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable rivers, 20 streams or watercourses;(i) carry out and maintain such other works, of whatever description, as may be necessary or expedient.Subsection (1) does not authorise the making of any cut for drainage purposeswhich is more than 3.4 metres wide at the bottom. 25The nominated undertaker may within the Act limits—(a) carry out and maintain landscaping and other works to mitigate anyadverse effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of any of the works authorised by this Act, and(b) carry out and maintain works for the benefit or protection of land 30 affected by any of the works authorised by this Act.Schedule 2 contains further and supplementary provision about works.Without prejudice to subsection (1)(g), the nominated undertaker may, for the purposes of or in connection with the works authorised by this Act, undertakethe electric line diversions and other works specified in the table in Schedule 3. 35HighwaysSchedule 4 contains provision about—(a) highway access;(b) power to stop up and interfere with highways;(c) construction and maintenance of highways. 40Compulsory acquisition of landPower to acquire land compulsorilyThe Secretary of State may acquire compulsorily so much of the land within the Act limits as may be required for Phase One purposes.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill3￼(2) (3)(4) (5)5(1)(2) (3) (4)(5) (6)6(1)(2)Schedule 5 contains provision about the particular purposes for which land within the limits of land to be acquired or used may be acquired under subsection (1).Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, so far as not inconsistent with thisAct, applies to an acquisition of land under subsection (1)— 5(a) as it applies to a compulsory purchase to which Schedule 1 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 applies, and(b) as if this Act were a compulsory purchase order under that Act.The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 applies as if this Actwere a compulsory purchase order. 10 Schedule 6 contains further provision about the application of compulsorypurchase legislation.Acquisition of rights in landThe power under section 4(1) includes power to acquire such easements orother rights over land to which the power relates as may be required for Phase 15 One purposes, by—(a) creating new easements or other rights, or(b) acquiring easements or other rights already in existence.In the case of land specified in the table in Schedule 7, the power under section4(1) also includes power to impose restrictive covenants over the land for the 20 purposes specified in relation to the land in column (3) of the table.In the case of land specified in the table in Schedule 8, the power under section 4(1) may be exercised only so as to acquire rights for purposes specified in relation to the land in column (3) of the table.The Secretary of State may by order provide that section 4(1), so far as relating 25 to compulsory acquisition by virtue of this section, is to be treated as also authorising acquisition of rights or imposition of restrictive covenants by such person as may be specified in the order.The power to make an order under subsection (4) includes power to make anorder varying or revoking any order previously made under that subsection. 30Schedule 9 contains provision about the application of compulsory purchase legislation to a compulsory acquisition by virtue of this section.Acquisition of part of landThe provisions of Schedule 10 apply instead of section 8(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 where— 35(a) a notice to treat under Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1), isgiven in respect of land forming part only of a house, building or manufactory or part only of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, and 40(b) a copy of this section and Schedule 10 is given with the notice to treat.Nothing in this section or Schedule 10 applies in relation to a compulsory acquisition under section 4(1) by virtue of section 5 (acquisition of rights or imposition of restrictive covenants).
￼￼￼47(1) (2)8(1) (2)(3) (4)9(1)(2) (3)(4)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼Acquisition of airspaceThe power under section 4(1) in relation to land may be exercised in relation to the airspace over the land only.The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under section 4(1) in relation to airspace only— 5(a) section 8(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (limitation on right to require person to sell part only of any house, building, manufactory or park or garden belonging to a house);(b) Schedule 1 to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act1981 (corresponding provision in case of general vesting declaration). 10Acquisition of subsoil or under-surfaceThe power under section 4(1) in relation to land may be exercised in relation to the subsoil or under-surface of the land only.The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under section 4(1) in relation to subsoil or under-surface only— 15(a) section 8(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (limitation on right to require person to sell only part of a house, building, manufactory or park or garden belonging to a house);(b) Schedule 1 to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act1981 (corresponding provision in case of general vesting declaration). 20Subsection (2) is to be disregarded where the power under section 4(1) is exercised in relation to a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or manufactory.Schedule 11 contains provision which in certain cases restricts the power under section 4(1)— 25(a) to the subsoil or under-surface of land, or(b) to the subsoil or under-surface of land and rights of passage.Highway subsoilThe nominated undertaker may enter upon, take and use for the purposes ofthe works authorised by this Act so much of the subsoil of any highway within 30 the Act limits as is required for the purposes of the construction or maintenance of those works, without being required to acquire that subsoil orany interest in it.Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a highway which forms part of a building fronting 35 on to the highway.In the case of land specified in the table in Schedule 12—(a) the power under subsection (1) is not exercisable in relation to the subsoil of a highway comprised in the land, and(b) the power under section 4(1) is not exercisable in relation to the land so 40 far as the surface of the land is comprised in a highway.Subsection (3)(b) does not restrict the exercise of the power under section 4(1) in relation to a cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a highway which forms part of a building fronting on to the highway where—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill5￼10(5)(6)(7)(8) (9)(1)(2)(3) (4)(a) the building is within the Act limits, and(b) the power under section 4(1) is exercisable in relation to the building.In the case of a highway comprised in land specified in the table in paragraph1 of Schedule 11, the power under subsection (1) is exercisable only in relationto so much of the subsoil of the highway as lies more than 9 metres beneath the 5 level of the surface of the highway.The restrictions imposed by subsections (3) and (5) on the power under subsection (1) do not affect the power under paragraph 7(1) of Schedule 4 (power of nominated undertaker to enter upon highway to carry out certainstreet works). 10The nominated undertaker must compensate any person who—(a) is an owner or occupier of land in respect of which the power under subsection (1) is exercised, and(b) suffers loss by the exercise of that power.Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under subsection (7), 15 or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.Compensation is not payable under subsection (7) to any person who is an undertaker to whom section 85 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 applies (sharing of cost of necessary measures) in respect of measures of which 20 the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.Termination of power to acquire landAfter the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—(a) no notice to treat may be served under Part 1 of the Compulsory 25 Purchase Act 1965, as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition of landunder section 4(1), and(b) no declaration may be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as applied by section 4(4) tothe acquisition of land under section 4(1). 30The Secretary of State may by order extend the period under subsection (1) in relation to any land, but may only do so—(a) once, and(b) by not more than 5 years.An order under subsection (2) is subject to special parliamentary procedure (as 35 to which, see the Statutory Orders (Special Procedure) Act 1945).Schedule 13 contains provision about a right to require acquisition where an order is made under subsection (2).Extinction and exclusion of rights over landExtinction of rights over land 40Schedule 14 contains provision about the extinction of private and other rights over land.11
￼￼￼612(1)(2)(3) (4)13(1) (2)(3)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillExtinction of rights of statutory undertakersSections 271 to 273 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (extinguishment of rights of statutory undertakers etc) apply in relation to landheld by the Secretary of State as being land which is required for or in connection with the works authorised by this Act as they apply in relation to 5 land acquired or appropriated as mentioned in section 271(1) of that Act.In their application by virtue of subsection (1)—(a) sections 271 to 273 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 haveeffect as if references to the acquiring or appropriating authority wereto the nominated undertaker, and 10(b) sections 271 and 272 of that Act also have effect as if—(i) in subsection (2), for the words from “with” to “appropriated” there were substituted “authorised by the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act 2014”, and(ii) in subsection (5), for the words from “local” to “or undertakers” 15 there were substituted “a person other than a Minister, the Minister”.Any reference in the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 to section 271, 272or 273 (including a reference to a provision of any of those sections) includes a reference to that section (or provision) as applied by subsection (1). 20In their application by virtue of subsection (3)—(a) section 274(3) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 has effect asif for “local authority or statutory undertaker” there were substituted“person”, and(b) sections 274(5), 279(2) to (4) and 280(6) of that Act have effect as if 25references to the acquiring or appropriating authority were to the nominated undertaker.Exclusion of new rights of wayNo right of way may be acquired by prescription or user over land which—(a) forms an access or approach to any railway infrastructure, and 30(b) falls within subsection (2).Land falls within this subsection if it is within the Act limits and—(a) the land, or a right of way over the land, has been acquired under thisAct,(b) the land, or a right of way over the land, is acquired by the Secretary of 35State for Phase One purposes otherwise than under this Act on or afterthe day on which this Act comes into force, or(c) the land, or a right of way over the land, was held by the Secretary ofState for Phase One purposes immediately before that day.In subsection (1) “railway infrastructure” means any building, structure, 40 railway track or other work used, or intended to be used, for Phase One purposes.￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill7￼1415(1)(2) (3) (4)16(1)(2) (3)(4) (5) (6)(7)Temporary possession and use of landTemporary possession and use of landSchedule 15 contains provisions about temporary possession and use of land in connection with the works authorised by this Act.Use of roads 5The nominated undertaker may use any road situated on land specified in—(a) the table in Schedule 8, or(b) the table in paragraph 2 of Schedule 11,for the passage of persons or vehicles (with or without materials, plant or machinery) for Phase One purposes. 10The power under subsection (1) may not be exercised after the end of five years beginning with the date on which Phase One of High Speed 2 is brought into general use.The nominated undertaker must compensate the person having the management of a road to which subsection (1) applies for any loss which the 15 person may suffer by reason of the exercise of the power under that subsection.Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under subsection (3), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.Cranes 20The nominated undertaker may enter upon and use airspace above the surface of land specified in subsection (7) for the oversailing of cranes used by the nominated undertaker for Phase One purposes.The power under subsection (1) is exercisable on giving at least 7 days’ noticeto the owners and occupiers of the land. 25The nominated undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, use airspace above the surface of the land as mentioned in subsection (1) after the end of 7 days beginning with the date of completion of the activities for which the crane has been used.The nominated undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and 30 occupiers of land above which the power under subsection (1) is exercised forany loss which they may suffer by reason of the exercise of that power.Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under subsection (4),or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961. 35Nothing in this section affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)) or under any other enactment, otherwise than for loss for which compensation is payable under subsection (4).This is the land referred to in subsection (1)— 40
￼￼￼8High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼￼17(1)(2)(3)1819(1)(2)491, 581, 582, 589, 592, 596, 599 5 Enforcement of restrictions on land useAreaLondon Borough of Camden London Borough of HillingdonNumber of land shown on deposited plans865, 866, 877 to 888, 890, 895 to 898, 902, 903, 909, 913 to 915, 922 to 925, 927, 929 to 931, 943, 944, 956, 957, 969, 1039, 1046￼This section applies where—(a) a prohibition of or restriction on the use of land is imposed by acovenant or agreement between a person interested in the land (“thepromisor”) and the Secretary of State, and 10(b) the covenant or agreement is made for Phase One purposes.The Secretary of State may enforce the prohibition or restriction against persons deriving title from or under the promisor in respect of land to which it relates as if—(a) the Secretary of State were possessed of adjacent land, and 15(b) the covenant or agreement had been expressed to be made for thebenefit of such land.Section 2(c) of the Local Land Charges Act 1975 (under which a prohibition or restriction enforceable by a Minister of the Crown under a covenant or agreement is not a local land charge if binding on successive owners because 20 made for the benefit of land of the Minister) does not apply to the prohibitionor restriction.Compensation for injurious affectionSection 10(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (compensation for injurious affection) has effect, in relation to land injuriously affected by the 25 execution of works under this Act by the nominated undertaker, as if for “acquiring authority have” there were substituted “nominated undertakerhas”.PlanningDeemed planning permission 30Planning permission is deemed to be granted under Part 3 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 for the carrying out of development authorised by this Act.This is subject to the other provisions of this Act.Where development authorised by this Act consists of the carrying out of a 35 work which is not a scheduled work, subsection (1) does not apply if—(a) the development is likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue of factors such as its nature, size or location,(b) the development is not exempt development within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, and 40
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill9￼(3) (4)(5)20(1)(2) (3) (4)21(1)(2)(3) (4)22(1)(c) the development is not covered by an environmental assessment in connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill.Schedule 16 imposes conditions on deemed planning permission under subsection (1).Deemed planning permission under subsection (1) is specific planning 5 permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (specific planning permission for development of statutory undertakers’ land relevant to whether the land is operational land).Development which has deemed planning permission under subsection (1) isnot development of a class for which planning permission is granted by the 10 Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order 1995(S.I. 1995/418) (or any order replacing it).Time limit on deemed planning permissionIn relation to development consisting of the construction of a scheduled work,it is a condition of the deemed planning permission under section 19(1) that the 15 development must be begun not later than the end of 10 years beginning withthe day on which this Act is passed.The Secretary of State may, in relation to any such development, by orderextend the period within which the development must be begun by virtue ofthis section. 20An order under subsection (2) must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such an order is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.Section 91 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (limit on duration of planning permission) does not apply to deemed planning permission under 25 section 19(1).Power to disapply deemed planning permissionThe Secretary of State may by order provide, in relation to any work constructed in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, that section 19(1) isnot to apply to development consisting of operations for the maintenance or 30 alteration of the work which are begun on or after a day specified in the order.The Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order1995 (S.I. 1995/418) (or any order replacing that order) has effect in relation toany development excepted from section 19(1) by subsection (1) as if this Actwere a local Act. 35An order under subsection (1) may make different provision for different cases.An order under subsection (1) must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such an order must be laid before Parliamentafter being made. 40Parking at Birmingham Interchange: limit on deemed planning permissionIn the case of development consisting of the provision of parking at Birmingham Interchange (“relevant development”), section 19(1) only applies
￼￼￼10High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Billto development which, when taken together with any other relevant development which has deemed planning permission under section 19(1), does not involve—(a) the provision of more than 7500 parking spaces for cars, and(b) the provision of more than 5 parking spaces for coaches. 5Schedule 16 (planning conditions) does not apply to development to which subsection (1) applies.The deemed planning permission under section 19(1) for relevant development is to be treated for the purposes of the Development Management Procedure Order (and for no other purpose) as an outline 10 planning permission in respect of which access, appearance, landscaping andlayout (in each case as defined by that Order) are specified as reserved matters for the subsequent approval of the local planning authority.In this section—(a) “Birmingham Interchange” means so much of the land within the Act 15limits as falls within the area bounded by—(i) the A452 Chester Road to the east,(ii) the M42 to the west, and(iii) the A45 Coventry Road to the south;(b) “the Development Management Procedure Order” means the Town 20 and Country Planning (Development Management Procedure) (England) Order 2010 (S.I. 2010/2184) (or any order replacing it);(c) the reference to development consisting of the provision of parking does not include development consisting of—(i) the provision of short-term parking for cars, taxis and coaches, 25 or(ii) the provision of parking on working sites.Development consentThe works authorised by this Act do not require consent under the PlanningAct 2008 (development consent). 30DeregulationListed buildingsSchedule 17 contains provision for the disapplication or modification of controls relating to listed buildings.Ancient monuments 35 Schedule 18 contains provision for the disapplication or modification ofcontrols relating to ancient monuments.Burial groundsNothing in any enactment relating to burial grounds and no obligation or restriction imposed under ecclesiastical law or otherwise has effect to prohibit, 40￼(2) (3)(4)23242526(1)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill11￼(2)(3)27(1)(2)28restrict or impose any condition on the use of any land comprised in a burial ground for the purpose of constructing any of the works authorised by this Act.Subsection (1) does not apply where the use of the land for that purpose would involve disturbing human remains which are buried in it, unless the remainsand any monument to the deceased have been dealt with in accordance with 5 Schedule 19.In this section and Schedule 19 “monument” includes a tombstone or other memorial; and references to a monument to a person are to a monument commemorating that person, whether alone or with any other person.Consecrated land 10No obligation or restriction imposed under ecclesiastical law or otherwise in relation to consecrated land has effect to prohibit, restrict or impose any condition on the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to the use of land comprised in a burial 15 ground for the purpose of constructing any of the works authorised by this Act.Commons and open spacesNo enactment regulating the use of commons, town or village greens, openspaces or allotments, and no enactment specially regulating any land of any ofthose kinds, prevents or restricts— 20(a) the doing of anything for Phase One purposes on land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker for those purposes,(b) the exercise of any right of entry under this Act (or the doing of anything pursuant to such a right of entry), or(c) the doing of anything in exercise of any other power under this Act. 25TreesThe enactments specified in subsection (2) do not apply to—(a) tree works which are carried out in relation to a tree growing on land within the Act limits for the purposes of or in connection with theconstruction of the works authorised by this Act, or 30(b) tree works which are carried out in relation to a tree growing on land used for Phase One purposes and are necessary—(i) to enable works authorised by this Act to be maintained, or(ii) for reasons of safety in connection with such works or theoperation of Phase One of High Speed 2. 35The enactments referred to in subsection (1) are—(a) an order under section 198(1) or 202(1) of the Town and CountryPlanning Act 1990 and regulations under section 202A(1) of that Act (tree preservation orders), and(b) section 211(1) and (5) of that Act (preservation of trees in conservation 40 areas).In this section, “tree works” means works consisting of the removal, topping or lopping of a tree or the cutting back of the roots of a tree.29(1)(2)(3)
￼￼￼1230High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼31323334Schedule 8 to that Act (procedure for obtaining consent) has effect as if 15 paragraph 2(2) (public inquiry to be held where planning authority object to consent application) were omitted.The installation of an electric line by a person other than the nominated undertaker is to be treated for the purposes of subsection (1)—(a) as a work authorised by this Act, and 20(b) as having deemed planning permission under section 19(1),if, were it carried out by the nominated undertaker, it would be a work authorised by this Act and would have such permission.The installation of an electric line for the purposes of, in connection with or in consequence of the construction of any work authorised by this Act does not 25 require consent under the Planning Act 2008 (development consent).In this section, “electric line” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 (see section 64 of that Act).WaterSchedule 20 contains provision about water abstraction and impounding and 30 other matters related to water and drainage.BuildingsSchedule 21 contains provision about the application of various provisions of the Building Act 1984 and building regulations.Schedule 22 contains provision about the application of the Party Wall etc Act 35 1996.Street worksSchedule 23 disapplies various controls relating to works in or near streets and highways.Lorries 40 Schedule 24 contains provision about the use of heavy commercial vehicles.(1)(2)(3)(4) (5)(1) (2)Overhead linesSection 37(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 (which requires the consent of the Secretary of State in relation to overhead lines) does not apply in relation to an electric line where—(a) the line is installed above land within the Act limits, and 5(b) the installation of the line—(i) is a work authorised by this Act, and(ii) has deemed planning permission under section 19(1).Where section 37(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 applies in relation to an electric line—(a) the installation of which is a work authorised by this Act, or(b) which is installed, or is to be installed, for the purposes of, in connection with or in consequence of the construction of any work authorised by this Act,10
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill13￼353637(1)(2)(3) (4)38(1)(2) (3)(4)NoiseSchedule 25 contains provision about—(a) noise on construction sites, and(b) noise which constitutes a statutory nuisance.Local Acts 5 Schedule 26 disapplies various controls under local Acts relating to London,Oxfordshire, Staffordshire and the West Midlands.Railway mattersObjectives of Office of Rail RegulationThe list of objectives in section 4(1) of the Railways Act 1993 (objectives of 10 Office of Rail Regulation and Secretary of State) is to be treated, in relation tothe Office of Rail Regulation only, as including the objective of facilitating the construction of Phase One of High Speed 2.The Office of Rail Regulation must consult the Secretary of State about the discharge of its duty under section 4(1) of the Railways Act 1993 so far as 15 relating to that objective.This section ceases to have effect on such day as the Secretary of State may specify by order.An order under subsection (3) must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such an order must be laid before Parliament 20 after being made.Disapplication of licensing requirement in pre-operational phaseSection 6(1) of the Railways Act 1993 (which prohibits any person from actingas the operator of a railway asset unless authorised by a licence under section8 of that Act) does not apply in relation to— 25(a) a railway asset, other than a train, which is constructed in exercise of the powers conferred under this Act but which is not yet ready for commercial use, or(b) a train being used on a network where the network is a railway assetfalling within paragraph (a). 30For the purposes of subsection (1), a railway asset is to be taken to be ready for commercial use only if the Secretary of State has laid before Parliament notice of his or her determination that it is ready for such use.The exemption granted by subsection (1) is an appropriate licence exemptionfor the purposes of section 122 of the Railways Act 1993 (which provides a 35 defence to actions in nuisance etc to persons who hold a licence under section8 of that Act or have an appropriate licence exemption).In this section “network”, “railway asset” and “train” have the same meanings as in Part 1 of the Railways Act 1993.
￼￼￼1439(1)(2)(3)40 41(1)(2)(3)(4) (5)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillDisapplication of statutory closure provisionsThe Secretary of State may at any time before Phase One of High Speed 2 isready for commercial use direct that the statutory closure provisions (so far as otherwise relevant) are not to apply to any discontinuance which the Secretaryof State considers necessary or expedient because of— 5(a) the carrying out or proposed carrying out of works authorised by this Act, or(b) the proposed operation of Phase One of High Speed 2.In subsection (1) “statutory closure provisions” means the following provisionsof the Railways Act 2005— 10 sections 22 to 25 (discontinuance of railway passenger services),sections 26 to 28 (discontinuance of operation of passenger networks),sections 29 to 31 (discontinuance of use or operation of stations), andsection 37 (discontinuance of experimental passenger services).For the purposes of this section, Phase One of High Speed 2 is to be taken to be 15 ready for commercial use only if the Secretary of State has laid before Parliament notice of his or her determination that it is ready for such use.Other railway legislation etcSchedule 27 contains provision about the application of railway legislation.Co-operation 20Where the nominated undertaker considers that a matter affects—(a) the construction, maintenance or operation of Phase One of High Speed2, and(b) the construction, maintenance or operation of a railway asset, or otherrailway facility, which is not a Phase One asset or facility, 25the nominated undertaker may by notice require a controller of the asset or facility to enter into an agreement with the nominated undertaker about how the matter is to be dealt with.Where a controller of a railway asset, or other railway facility, that is not aPhase One asset or facility considers that a matter affects— 30(a) the construction, maintenance or operation of the asset or facility, and(b) the construction, maintenance or operation of Phase One of High Speed 2,the controller may by notice require the nominated undertaker to enter into an agreement with the controller about how the matter is to be dealt with. 35The terms of an agreement under subsection (1) or (2) are to be such as the nominated undertaker and the controller may agree or, in default of agreement, as may be determined by arbitration.Schedule 28 contains provision about arbitration under subsection (3) (whichis in addition to the general provision about arbitration in section 60). 40For the purposes of this section, a railway asset or other railway facility is a “Phase One asset or facility” if—(a) in the case of a railway asset consisting of any train being used on a network, the network is comprised in Phase One of High Speed 2, and￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill15￼(6)(7)(b) in any other case, if the railway asset or other railway facility is used, or intended for use, for Phase One purposes.Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to—(a) a matter which pursuant to any enactment must or may be dealt withby the Office of Rail Regulation, or 5(b) a matter relating to an agreement which pursuant to any provision of that or any other agreement must or may be dealt with by the Office of Rail Regulation.In this section—“controller”, in relation to a railway asset or facility, means— 10(a) the person having the management of the asset or facility for the time being, or(b) a person who owns, or has rights in relation to, the asset or facility;“network”, “railway asset” and “train” have the same meanings as in Part 15 1 of the Railways Act 1993;“railway facility” includes a maintenance depot, electrical supply facility or stabling facility.Transfer of functions relating to worksIf for the purposes of this Act the Secretary of State acquires any land from a 20 railway operator on which works authorised by any enactment are situated,the Secretary of State may by order provide for the transfer to the Secretary ofState or the nominated undertaker of any power or duty which—(a) was previously exercisable by the railway operator, and(b) was conferred under an enactment. 25The Secretary of State may by order provide for the further transfer, to the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker, of a power or duty transferred under subsection (1) or this subsection.If a railway operator acquires any land from the Secretary of State on whichworks authorised by this Act are situated, the Secretary of State may, with the 30 consent of the railway operator, by order provide for the transfer to the railway operator of any duty under this Act relating to the works.An order under this section may contain such supplementary, incidental, consequential or transitional provision as the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient in connection with the order. 35In subsections (1) and (3), references to a railway operator are to a person who has the management for the time being of any network, station or light maintenance depot.In this section “light maintenance depot”, “network” and “station” have thesame meanings as in Part 1 of the Railways Act 1993”. 40Nominated undertaker and other Phase One function-holdersNominated undertakerThe Secretary of State may by order—42(1)(2) (3)(4) (5) (6)43(1)
￼￼￼16High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill(a) appoint a person specified in the order as the nominated undertaker for such purposes of such provisions of this Act as may be so specified;(b) provide that an appointment under paragraph (a) ceases to have effect in such circumstances as may be specified in the order.Where, in the case of any provision of this Act which refers to the nominated 5 undertaker, there is any purpose of the provision for which no-one has been appointed as the nominated undertaker under subsection (1), any reference inthe provision to the nominated undertaker is to be read, in relation to that purpose, as a reference to the Secretary of State.The Secretary of State may fetter the exercise of his or her discretion under 10 subsection (1) by agreement with a person who is, or is proposed to be, specified in an order under that subsection.The Secretary of State may by order make such modifications of any provisionof this Act referring to the Secretary of State, so far as applying for a purposein relation to which subsection (2) has effect, as appear to the Secretary of State 15 to be necessary or expedient in consequence of the Secretary of State’s having functions by virtue of that subsection.An order under this section may contain such supplementary, incidental, consequential or transitional provision as the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient. 20An order under this section must be made by statutory instrument.A statutory instrument containing an order under subsection (4) is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.Transfer schemesThe Secretary of State may make schemes for the transfer of property, rights and 25 liabilities—(a) from High Speed Two (HS2) Limited, or(b) from a body corporate which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of High Speed Two(HS2) Limited,to any person, including the Secretary of State. 30In subsection (1), “wholly-owned subsidiary” has the meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006.Schedule 29 contains further provision about schemes made under this section.Statutory undertakersExtension of planning permission for statutory undertakers 35Schedule 30 contains provision about certain works carried out by statutory undertakers, including provision extending the planning permission granted by the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order 1995 for works covered by an environmental assessment.￼44(2)(3) (4)(5)(6) (7)(1)(2) (3)45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill17￼4647(1)(2)(3)(4) (5)Protective provisionsSchedule 31 contains provision protecting the interests of certain persons who may be affected by other provisions of this Act.Regeneration and reinstatementCompulsory acquisition of land for regeneration or relocation 5If the Secretary of State considers that the construction or operation of Phase One of High Speed 2 gives rise to the opportunity for regeneration or development of any land, the Secretary of State may acquire the land compulsorily.If the whole or part of any undertaking is displaced, or is likely to be displaced, 10 as a result of the exercise of any power under this Act, the Secretary of Statemay acquire land compulsorily—(a) for the relocation of the undertaking, or(b) in a case relating to part of an undertaking—(i) for the relocation of the displaced part, or 15(ii) for the purpose of providing land in substitution for the site ofthe displaced part.For the purposes of subsection (2), the whole or part of an undertaking is displaced if the site on which it has previously been carried on is no longer reasonably capable of being used for the purposes of the undertaking. 20The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this section.In relation to a compulsory acquisition under this section—(a) section 234 of TCPA 1990 (disposal of land) and section 236 of that Act (extinguishment of rights) apply as they apply where land is acquired 25 as mentioned in those sections,(b) section 237 of TCPA 1990 (power to override easements etc) applies asit applies to land acquired or appropriated by a local authority for planning purposes, but as if in subsections (1) and (1A) for “in accordance with planning permission” there were substituted “for the 30 purpose for which the land was acquired”,(c) sections 238, 239 and 241 of TCPA 1990 (use and development of consecrated land, burial grounds and open spaces) apply as if, in subsection (1)(a) of each of those sections, for “for any purpose forwhich he acquired the land” there were substituted “, or by any other 35 person, for any purpose for which the land was acquired”, and(d) section 245 of TCPA 1990 (modified application of Acquisition of Land Act 1981 and Compulsory Purchase Act 1965) applies as it applies where land is proposed to be acquired as mentioned in that section.Sections 237, 238, 239 and 241 of TCPA 1990 also apply as mentioned in 40 subsection (5)(b) and (c) where land is acquired by the Secretary of State, otherwise than under this section, for a purpose for which land may be acquired under this section.(6)
￼￼￼18High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillThe power to acquire land compulsorily under this section includes power to acquire an easement or other right over land by creating a new easement or right.Section 13(2), (3) and (5) of, and Part 2 of Schedule 1 to, the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976 (application of compulsory purchase 5 legislation) apply to a compulsory acquisition by virtue of subsection (7) asthey apply to an acquisition of rights by virtue of section 13(1) of that Act.In this section—“TCPA 1990” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;“undertaking” includes a business or facility. 10Power to carry out reinstatement worksThe nominated undertaker may, where the operation or use of the whole orpart of an undertaking is discontinued or substantially impaired as a result ofthe exercise of any power under this Act, carry out reinstatement works withinthe Act limits. 15For the purposes of this section, “reinstatement works” means works for the purposes of or in connection with the reinstatement (whether on the same site or otherwise) of the whole or part of the undertaking in question.Where the power under subsection (1) is exercised for the purpose of carryingout temporary reinstatement works, it may be further exercised for the 20 purpose of carrying out permanent reinstatement works.The Secretary of State may direct that section 19(1) (deemed planning permission for development authorised by this Act) does not apply in relation to particular reinstatement works.Where a direction under subsection (4) has effect in relation to reinstatement 25 works, the Secretary of State may direct—(a) that planning permission for the works is deemed to be granted under Part 3 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the direction (but see subsection (8));(b) that, where the works have deemed planning permission under 30 paragraph (a), subsection (1) is to be treated as also authorising them tobe carried out by such person as may be specified in the direction.The provisions of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (other than section92 and Part 12) apply in relation to deemed planning permission under subsection (5)(a) as if it had been granted by the Secretary of State on an 35 application referred to the Secretary of State under section 77 of that Act.Section 20 (time limit on deemed planning permission) applies in relation to development authorised by subsection (5)(a) as it applies in relation to development consisting of the carrying out of a scheduled work.The power in subsection (5)(a) does not apply in relation to development 40 which—(a) is likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue of factors such as its nature, size or location,(b) is not exempt development within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, and 45￼(7) (8)(9)48(1)(2) (3) (4) (5)(6)(7) (8)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill19￼(9)(10)(11) (12)49(1) (2)(c) is not covered by an environmental assessment in connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill.The Secretary of State must—(a) publish any direction under subsection (5)(a) in such manner as the Secretary of State thinks appropriate, and 5(b) give copies of any such direction to—(i) the owners and occupiers of the land to which the deemedplanning permission relates, and(ii) the unitary authority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the development to which the direction 10 relates is or is to be carried out.Where reinstatement works are carried out by a person other than the nominated undertaker—(a) section 10(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (compensation for injurious affection) has effect, in relation to land injuriously affected by 15 the execution of the works, as if for “acquiring authority have” therewere substituted “person carrying out the works has”;(b) section 6 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 (as applied by paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 27) has effect as if references to “the company” were to the person carrying out the works. 20Directions given under this section may revoke or vary previous directions under this section.In this section, “undertaking” includes a business or facility.Further high speed rail worksWorks in Scotland for Phase One purposes 25(3) (4)(b) sections3to10,11(1),(2)and(4)to(7),12to14,16to21,23and28ofthat Act (which contain further provision relating to orders under section 1 of that Act); 35(c) rules and regulations under that Act;(d) orders under section 12(18) or 18(1) of that Act;(e) section 57(2A) of, and paragraph 16 of Schedule 14 to, the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997 (which contain provision relating to deemed planning permission and blighted land). 40References to provisions in subsections (2)(a) to (e) include those provisions as amended at any time by an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an instrument made under such an Act.The power conferred by section 2(3)(a) of the Transport and Works (Scotland)Act 2007, as applied by subsection (2), is exercisable in relation to enactments 45The Scottish Ministers may make an order relating to the carrying out of works in Scotland for Phase One purposes.The following provisions apply in relation to an order under this section as to an order under section 1 of the Transport and Works (Scotland) Act 2007 (asp 8)—(a) section 2 of, and schedule 1 to, that Act (which contain provision about the subject-matter of orders under section 1 of that Act);30
￼￼￼20High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Billrelating to reserved matters without the restrictions imposed by section 29(2)(b) or (c) of, or Schedule 4 to, the Scotland Act 1998.In subsection (4), “reserved matters” means matters which are reserved matters for the purposes of the Scotland Act 1998.In this Act, references to works authorised by this Act do not include works 5 authorised by an order under this section.Power to apply Act to further high speed rail worksA Transport and Works Act order which relates to a relevant Phase One mattermay apply any provision of this Act, with or without modification, to anything authorised by the order, so far as relating to that matter. 10The following are “relevant Phase One matters”—(a) a power exercisable or to be exercisable in connection with the works authorised by this Act,(b) an extension of Phase One of High Speed 2, and(c) any other works carried out or to be carried out for Phase One 15purposes.A Transport and Works Act order which relates to an extension or works referred to in subsection (2)(b) and (c) may also provide for any provision ofthis Act to have effect as if Phase One of High Speed 2 included the extensionor works. 20Section 13(2) of the Transport and Works Act 1992 (power of Secretary of Stateto refuse application on ground that objects of order sought could be achievedby other means) does not apply where, for purposes relating to the diversionof apparatus belonging to a utility undertaker, an application is made under section 6 of that Act for a Transport and Works Act order in relation to a 25 relevant Phase One matter.Subsection (1) does not confer power to apply any of the following—section 10(2) and Schedule 13 (extension of time-limit on compulsory acquisition);Schedules 17 and 18 (listed buildings and ancient monuments). 30 In this section, “Transport and Works Act order” means an order under section1 of the Transport and Works Act 1992.Rights of entry for further high speed rail worksAn authorised person may, in connection with a Bill or proposed Bill to authorise works for a high speed railway line in Great Britain, enter any land 35 within 500 metres of the proposed route of the line for the purpose of—(a) surveying the land, or(b) facilitating compliance with EU environmental protection legislation.A person is authorised for the purposes of subsection (1)—(a) in the case of residential land, if the person is authorised by a warrant 40issued by a justice of the peace (for residential land in England and Wales) or justice of the peace or sheriff (for residential land in Scotland);(b) in the case of any other land, if the person is authorised in writing by the Secretary of State.￼(5) (6)50(1) (2)(3)(4)(5)(6)51(1)(2)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill21￼(3) A person may only issue a warrant or give authorisation under subsection (2) if it appears to the person that—(a) entry to the land for the purpose proposed is genuinely needed for purposes relating to the construction of the high speed railway line,and 5(b) all reasonable attempts have been made to obtain consent to enter the land.(4) The reference in subsection (1) to a proposed Bill is to a Bill proposed in a Command Paper which the Secretary of State has presented to Parliament atany time in the previous five years. 10(5) A right to enter land under subsection (1) includes power—(a) to take samples of anything in or on the land for the purpose for which the right of entry is exercised,(b) to take on to the land such other persons as may be necessary, and(c) to take vehicles and equipment on to the land. 15(6) A right to enter land under subsection (1)(a) also includes power—(a) to search and bore for the purpose of ascertaining the nature of the subsoil or the presence of minerals or other matter in it (subject tosection 52), and(b) to place on, leave on and remove apparatus from the land. 20(7) In this section—“EU environmental protection legislation” means any EU instrumentrelating to—(a) the conservation of habitats, flora and fauna, or(b) the assessment of the effects of projects on the environment; 25“residential land” means so much of any land as consists of—(a) a dwelling or part of a dwelling,(b) a garden, yard, private garage or outbuilding which is used and enjoyed wholly or mainly with a dwelling, or(c) in the case of a building which includes one or more dwellings, 30 any part of the building which is used and enjoyed wholly or mainly with those dwellings or any of them.(8) The reference in subsection (1) to a high speed railway line in Great Britain does not include one which starts, ends and remains in Scotland.(9) For the purposes of subsection (1), distance is to be measured from the centre 35 line of the proposed route.(10) The Secretary of State may by order—(a) amend subsection (1) so as to substitute a different distance for the distance specified in it;(b) provide, in relation to any class of case, that subsection (1) is to have 40 effect as if a different distance were specified in it.(11) An order under this section is to be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such an order is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.
￼￼￼2252(1)(2) (3)(4) (5)(6)(7) (8)(9)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼Exercise of rights of entryA warrant or other authorisation under section 51 is valid for a period of six weeks beginning with the day on which it is issued or given.A right of entry under section 51(1) is exercisable at any reasonable time.A person authorised under section 51 to enter any land— 5(a) must, if so required, produce evidence of the person’s warrant or otherauthorisation, and state the purpose of entry, before entering,(b) may not demand admission as of right to any land which is occupiedunless 14 days’ notice of the intended entry has been given to the occupier, and 10(c) must comply with any other conditions subject to which the warrant or other authorisation is given.A person who wilfully obstructs another in the exercise of the power under section 51(1) commits an offence; and a person guilty of such an offence is liableon summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale. 15Where any damage is caused to land or other property—(a) in the exercise of a right of entry conferred by section 51(1), or(b) in the carrying out of a survey for the purposes of which any such rightof entry has been conferred,compensation may be recovered by any person suffering the damage from the 20 person exercising the right of entry.Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under subsection (5), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined—(a) in England and Wales, under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961; 25(b) in Scotland, by the Lands Tribunal for Scotland (and sections 9 and 11 of the Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1963 apply).No person may carry out works referred to in section 51(6)(a) (searching and boring) unless notice of the person’s intention to do so was included in thenotice required by subsection (3)(b). 30The authority of the appropriate minister is required for the carrying out of works referred to in section 51(6)(a) if—(a) the land in question is held by statutory undertakers, and(b) they object to the proposed works on the ground that carrying them outwould be seriously detrimental to the carrying on of their undertaking. 35In this section—“appropriate minister” means—(a) in the case of land in Wales held by a water or sewerage undertaker, the Welsh Ministers,(b) in the case of land in Scotland in respect of which any functions 40 in relation to statutory undertakers have been transferred by orunder the Scotland Act 1998 to the Scottish Ministers, the Scottish Ministers, and(c) in any other case, the Secretary of State;“statutory undertakers” means— 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill23￼53(1) (2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)54(1)(a) in England and Wales, persons who are, or who are deemed to be, statutory undertakers for the purposes of Part 11 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and(b) in Scotland, persons who are, or who are deemed to be, statutory undertakers for the purposes of Part 10 of the Town 5 and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997.The CrownApplication of powers to Crown landThe powers conferred on the nominated undertaker under this Act may be exercised in relation to Crown land with the consent of the Crown authority. 10The power conferred under section 51 (rights of entry for further high speed rail works) may be exercised in relation to Crown land with the consent of the Crown authority.The Crown authority may give consent under this section—(a) subject to conditions, and 15(b) notwithstanding anything in any lease or other grant granted by or tothat authority.In this Act, “Crown land” means land in which there is—(a) an interest belonging to a government department or held in trust forHer Majesty for the purposes of a government department, 20(b) an interest belonging to an office-holder in the Scottish Administration or held in trust for Her Majesty for the purposes of the Scottish Administration by such an office-holder,(c) an interest belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown, or(d) an interest belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Duchy of Lancaster. 25In this Act, “Crown authority”, in relation to any Crown land, means—(a) in a subsection (4)(a) case, the government department in question;(b) in a subsection (4)(b) case, the Scottish Ministers;(c) in a subsection (4)(c) case—(i) if the land forms part of the Crown Estate, the Crown Estate 30 Commissioners, and(ii) in any other case, the government department having management of the land;(d) in a subsection (4)(d) case, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.If for the purposes of this section a question arises as to which authority is the 35 Crown authority for any land—(a) the question is to be decided by the Treasury, and(b) the Treasury’s decision is final.In subsection (4)(b) “office-holder in the Scottish Administration” has the meaning given by section 126(7) of the Scotland Act 1998. 40Highways for which Secretary of State is highway authorityThe powers conferred on the nominated undertaker under this Act with respect to works may be exercised in relation to a highway for which the
￼￼￼24High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSecretary of State is the highway authority with the Secretary of State’s consent.The Secretary of State may give consent subject to conditions.Crown EstateSection 3(1) and (2) of the Crown Estate Act 1961 (limitations on Crown Estate 5 Commissioners’ powers of disposal in relation to land under their management) do not apply in relation to land within the Act limits which appears to the Crown Estate Commissioners to be required for Phase One purposes.Royal parks 10The Secretary of State may grant a lease of royal park land within the Act limits if it appears to the Secretary of State that the land is required for Phase One purposes.A lease may be granted under subsection (1) for such period, for such consideration (if any) and otherwise on such terms as the Secretary of State 15 thinks fit.The Secretary of State may grant an easement or other right over royal park land within the Act limits if it appears to the Secretary of State that the easement or right is required for Phase One purposes.An easement or other right may be granted under subsection (3)— 20(a) in fee simple or for such period as the Secretary of State thinks fit, and(b) for such consideration (if any) and otherwise on such terms as the Secretary of State thinks fit.In this section “royal park land” means land subject to management under section 22 of the Crown Lands Act 1851 (royal parks etc). 25Deposited plans and sections“Deposited plans” and “deposited sections”In this Act “deposited plans” and “deposited sections” mean, respectively, theplans and sections deposited in November 2013 in connection with the HighSpeed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill in the office of the Clerk of the 30 Parliaments and the Private Bill Office of the House of Commons.A copy of the deposited plans or deposited sections, or any extract from those plans or sections, certified as such by the Secretary of State is admissible in any proceedings as evidence of its contents.Correction of deposited plans 35If the deposited plans or the book of reference to those plans are inaccurate—(a) in their description of any land, or(b) in their statement or description of the ownership or occupation of anyland,￼(2)5556(1) (2) (3) (4)(5)57(1)(2)58(1)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill25￼(2)(3)(4)(5) (6)(7)59(1)the Secretary of State, after giving not less than 10 days’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the land in question, may apply to two justices having jurisdiction in the place where the land is situated for the correction of the plans or book of reference.If on such an application it appears to the justices that the misstatement or 5 wrong description arose from mistake or inadvertence, the justices—(a) must certify accordingly, and(b) must in their certificate state in what respect a matter is misstated orwrongly described.A certificate under subsection (2) must be deposited in the office of the Clerk 10 of the Parliaments, and a copy of it must be deposited—(a) in the Private Bill Office of the House of Commons, and(b) with the proper officer of each local authority in whose area the land towhich the certificate relates is situated.Upon deposit of the certificate— 15(a) the deposited plans or the book of reference are deemed to be corrected according to the certificate, and(b) it is lawful for the Secretary of State, in accordance with the certificate,to proceed under this Act as if the deposited plans or book of referencehad always been in the corrected form. 20A copy certificate deposited under subsection (3) must be kept with the documents to which it relates.A justice of the peace may act under this section in relation to land which ispartly in one area and partly in another if the justice may act in respect of landin either area. 25In this section—“book of reference” means the book deposited in November 2013 inconnection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill inthe office of the Clerk of the Parliaments and the Private Bill Office ofthe House of Commons; 30“local authority” means a unitary authority or, in a non-unitary area, a county council.Miscellaneous and generalEnvironmental Impact Assessment RegulationsThe Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations have effect as if the 35 definition of “EIA development” in regulation 2(1) included any developmentnot included in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition where—(a) the development consists of the construction of a building in place of a building demolished, or substantially demolished, in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, 40(b) the development does not have deemed planning permission under section 19(1),(c) the development is not exempt development within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, and
￼￼￼26High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill(d) the development would be likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue of factors such as its nature, size or location,The condition in subsection (1)(d) does not apply where the building referred to in subsection (1)(a) is—(a) 22 Melton Street (Grant Thornton House), or 5(b) 40 Melton Street (One Euston Square),in the London Borough of Camden.In regulation 8 of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations (subsequent applications where environmental information previously provided), in paragraph (1)(b)(ii), after “Crossrail Act 2008” insert “or section 10 19(1) or 48(5)(a) of the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act 2014”.ArbitrationWhere under this Act any difference is to be referred to arbitration, the difference is to be referred to, and settled by, a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, in default of agreement, to be appointed on the 15 application of either party, after notice to the other, by the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.Subsection (3) applies where—(a) a party has under subsection (1) applied for the arbitrator to be appointed by the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers, and 20(b) the President notifies either of the parties that he or she is not going to appoint an arbitrator under subsection (1).In default of agreement between the parties as to who in the circumstances should be the arbitrator, the arbitrator is to be appointed on the application ofeither party, after notice to the other, by the Office of Rail Regulation. 25The Office of Rail Regulation may under subsection (3) appoint a member or employee of that Office as the arbitrator.The Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government and the Secretary of State for Transport acting jointly may by rules make provisionabout procedure in relation to arbitration under this Act. 30Rules under subsection (5) must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such rules is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.Notices and other documentsA notice or other document required or authorised to be given to a person for 35 the purposes of this Act may be given by—(a) transmitting the text of the notice or document to the person by agreed electronic means (for example, by email to an agreed address),(b) delivering it to the person or sending it by post to the person at the person’s last known address, 40(c) if the person is a body corporate, delivering it to the secretary of the body corporate or sending it by post to the secretary of the body corporate at its registered or principal office within the United Kingdom, or￼(2)(3)60(1)(2)(3)(4) (5)(6)61(1)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill27￼62(2) (3)(4) (5)(6)(7) (8)(d) if the person is a partnership, delivering it to a partner of the partnership or a person having control or management of the partnership business, or sending it by post to such a partner or person at the principal office of the partnership.For the purposes of subsection (1), any person to whom a notice or other 5 document is to be given may specify a different address within the United Kingdom as the one to which the notice or document must be sent.Where a notice or document is given to a person in accordance with subsection(1)(a) and, within 7 days of receiving it, the person requests a copy of the noticeor document in printed form, the sender must provide such a copy as soon as 10 reasonably practicable.Subsection (1)(a) does not apply to the giving of a notice under section 52(3)(b).Subsection (6) applies where—(a) a document is required or authorised to be given to a person for the purposes of this Act as the owner of an interest in, or occupier of, any 15 land, and(b) the person’s name or address cannot be ascertained after reasonable enquiry.The document may be given to the person by addressing it to the person byname or by the description of “owner” or “occupier” (as the case may be) of the 20 land and—(a) leaving it with a person who is, or appears to be, resident or employed on the land, or(b) leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or object on or nearthe land. 25Any notice given for the purposes of this Act must be in writing.In this section—“secretary”, in relation to a local authority within the meaning of the LocalGovernment Act 1972, means the proper officer within the meaning ofthat Act; 30 references to giving a document include similar expressions (such asserving).“Phase One purposes”InterpretationReferences in this Act to anything being done or required for “Phase One 35 purposes” are to the thing being done or required—(a) for the purposes of or in connection with the works authorised by this Act,(b) for the purposes of or in connection with trains all or part of whose journey is on Phase One of High Speed 2, or 40(c) otherwise for the purposes of or in connection with Phase One of High Speed 2 or any high speed railway transport system of which Phase One of High Speed 2 forms or is to form part.
￼￼￼2863(1)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼InterpretationIn this Act—“Act limits” is to be construed in accordance with subsection (2) of this section;“allotment” means any allotment set out as a fuel allotment, or a field 5 garden allotment, under an Inclosure Act;“bridleway”, “carriageway”, “footpath” and “footway” have the same meanings as in the Highways Act 1980;“burial ground” means—(a) a churchyard, cemetery or other ground, whether consecrated 10or not, which has at any time been set apart for the purposes ofburial, or(b) any other place of burial;“common” includes any land subject to be enclosed under the InclosureActs 1845 to 1882; 15“covered by an environmental assessment in connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill” is to be construed in accordance with subsection (4) of this section;“Crown authority” has the meaning given by section 53(5);“Crown land” has the meaning given by section 53(4); 20 “deposited plans” and “deposited sections” have the meanings given bysection 57;“deposited statement” means a statement deposited in connection withthe High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill in the Private BillOffice of the House of Commons in November 2013 in pursuance of 25 Standing Order 27A of the Standing Orders of the House of Commons relating to private business (environmental assessment);“development” has the same meaning as in the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;“enactment” means either of the following (or a provision of either of the 30 following)—(a) an Act (including a local or private Act), or(b) any subordinate legislation, within the meaning given by section 21 of the Interpretation Act 1978;“Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations” means the Town and 35 Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations2011 (S.I. 2011/1824) (or any regulations replacing them);“held” is to be construed in accordance with subsection (3) of this section(in the case of a reference to land or a building held by the nominated undertaker); 40“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meanings as in the Highways Act 1980;“limits of deviation” means the limits of deviation which are shown on the deposited plans (which are the limits of deviation for the scheduled works); 45“limits of land to be acquired or used” means the limits of land to be acquired or used which are shown on the deposited plans;“nominated undertaker” is to be construed in accordance with section 43;“non-unitary area” means an area for which there is both a district and a county council; 50
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill29￼“open space” means any land laid out as a public garden, or used for the purposes of public recreation, or land which is a disused burial ground; “owner”, in relation to any land, has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (but this does not apply to Schedule 13,which has its own definition); 5 “Phase One of High Speed 2” has the meaning given by section 1(3);“Phase One purposes” is to be construed in accordance with section 62; “scheduled works” has the meaning given by section 1(2);“unitary authority” means—(a) a county council, so far as its area is not part of the area of a 10district council,(b) a district council whose area is not part of the area of a countycouncil, or(c) a London borough council;“utility undertaker” means— 15(a) a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act1986,(b) the holder of a licence under Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989,(c) a water undertaker or sewerage undertaker,(d) a local authority (within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 201991) which is a relevant authority for the purposes of section 97 of that Act, or(e) the operator of an electronic communications code network (within the meaning given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 17 tothe Communications Act 2003). 25(2) For the purposes of this Act, land or any other thing is within the Act limits if it is—(a) within the limits of deviation for the scheduled works, or(b) within the limits of land to be acquired or used,and references to the doing of anything within the Act limits are to be 30 construed accordingly.(3) References in this Act to land or a building held by the nominated undertaker include references to land or a building in the nominated undertaker’s temporary possession.(4) For the purposes of this Act, development is covered by an environmental 35 assessment in connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands)Bill if it is development in relation to which information contained in a deposited statement constituted, at the time of the statement’s deposit or publication, an environmental statement within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. 40(5) In this Act—(a) a reference to a highway or any other place identified by letters and numbers is a reference to the highway or place shown as such on the deposited plans;(b) a reference to a work identified by numbers (or numbers and a letter) is 45 a reference to the scheduled work of those numbers (or those numbersand letter);(c) a reference to a sheet identified by numbers is a reference to the sheet of those numbers contained in the deposited plans;
￼￼￼30High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill(d) a reference in any description of works, powers or land to area, distance, length or direction, or to a particular location, is to be read as if qualified by the words “or thereabouts”;(e) a reference to distance, in relation to points on a road or railway, is to distance measured along the centre line of the road or railway. 5For the purposes of this Act, the level of the surface of land is to be taken—(a) in the case of land on which a building is erected, to be the level of thesurface of the ground adjoining the building, and(b) in the case of a watercourse or other area of water, to be the level of thesurface of the adjoining ground which is at all times above water level. 10 FinalFinancial provisionThere is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—(a) any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in consequence of this Act,and 15(b) any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable out of money soprovided under any other enactment.Commencement and short titleThis Act comes into force on the day on which it is passed.This Act may be cited as the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act 20 2014.￼(6)6465(1) (2)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works31Section 1(1)￼Construction requirementsSCHEDULESSCHEDULE 1 SCHEDULED WORKS1 (1) The scheduled works must be constructed—(a) in the lines or situations shown on the deposited plans,(b) in accordance with the levels shown on the deposited sections, and(c) in the case of any station, depot or shaft for which an upper limit is5shown on the deposited sections, within the limit so shown.This is subject to sub-paragraph (2). 10(2) In constructing or maintaining any of the scheduled works, the nominated undertaker may deviate—(a) laterally to any extent from the lines or situations shown on the deposited plans, within the limits of deviation so shown,(b) vertically downwards to any extent from the level shown for that 15 work on the deposited sections, and(c) vertically upwards to any extent not exceeding 3 metres from thelevel shown for that work on the deposited sections, but doing so ina case mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(c) does not increase the limit referred to in that sub-paragraph. 20Description of scheduled worksLondon Borough of Camden, City of Westminster, London Borough of Brent, Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea, London Boroughs of Hammersmith & Fulham, Ealing and Hillingdon-—Work No. 1/1 - A railway (23.48 kilometres in length) partly in tunnel, 25 commencing at a point 235 metres east of the junction of North Gower Street with Drummond Street passing north-westwards and terminating beneath a point 80 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Ickenham Road over the Marylebone to Aylesbury Railway.Work No. 1/1 includes shafts at Cobourg Street, Parkway, Adelaide 30 Road, Alexandra Place, Salusbury Road and Greenpark Way, astation at Old Oak Common and a Crossover Box at Victoria Road.London Borough of Camden—Work No. 1/2 - A railway (2.16 kilometres in length) being arealignment of the West Coast Main Line Railway, partly in tunnel, 35 commencing within Euston Station at a point 139 metres south of the junction of Eversholt Street with Drummond Crescent, passing north-westwards and terminating at a point 68 metres east of the
￼￼￼32High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled workseastern face of the bridge carrying Regents Park Road over the WestCoast Main Line Railway;Works Nos. 1/1 and 1/2 include the reconfiguration and enlargementof Euston Mainline Station and London Underground Euston Stationticket hall; 5 Work No. 1/3 - A passenger subway, linking the proposed London Underground Euston Station ticket hall to the London Underground Metropolitan Line platforms at Euston Square Station and incorporating a new passenger access in Gordon Street commencingbeneath a point in Gordon Street 55 metres south-east of the junction 10 of that road with Euston Road and terminating beneath a point 90metres north of the junction of Euston Road with Gordon Street;Work No. 1/4 - A passenger subway commencing by a junction withthe London Underground Metropolitan Line platforms at Euston Square Station beneath a point in Euston Road 85 metres north-east 15 of the junction of that road with Gower Street and terminating by a junction with Work No. 1/3 beneath a point 5 metres south-east ofthe junction of Euston Road with Gordon Street;Work No. 1/4A - A passenger subway commencing by a junction withthe London Underground Metropolitan Line platforms at Euston 20 Square Station beneath a point in Euston Road 85 metres north-eastof the junction of that road with Gower Street and terminating by a junction with Work No. 1/3 beneath a point 10 metres north-west ofthe junction of Euston Road with Gordon Street;Work No. 1/4B - A passenger subway linking the proposed London 25 Underground Euston Station ticket hall to the London Underground Northern Line and Victoria Line platforms at Euston Station commencing beneath a point 100 metres west of the junction of Grafton Place and Eversholt Street, and terminating beneath a point60 metres north east of the junction of Doric Way and Eversholt 30Street;Work No. 1/4C - A passenger subway linking the proposed LondonUnderground Euston Station ticket hall to the London Underground Northern Line and Victoria Line platforms commencing beneath apoint 125 metres west of the junction of Grafton Place and Eversholt 35 Street, and terminating beneath a point 82 metres north east of the junction of Doric Way and Eversholt Street;Work No. 1/5 - An access road commencing by a junction with EustonRoad at a point 10 metres north-east of the junction of that road with Gordon Street and terminating at a point at the junction of Eversholt 40 Street and Grafton Place;Work No. 1/6 - A sewer forming a diversion of sewers in CardingtonStreet, Melton Street, Drummond Street, Euston Street and Stephenson Way commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/9B beneath a point in Euston Road 25 metres north-east of the junction 45 of that road with Gordon Street, and terminating by a junction witha sewer in Robert Street beneath a point 20 metres west of thejunction of that road with Hampstead Road;Work No. 1/7 - A diversion of Cobourg Street commencing at a point70 metres south-east of its junction with Euston Street and 50 terminating in Robert Street at a point 24 metres west of the junctionof that street with Hampstead Road;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works33￼Work No. 1/7A - An access road to Regnart Buildings, commencing at a point 40 metres south-east of the junction of Euston Street with Cobourg Street and terminating at a point 42 metres north-west of the point of commencement;Work No. 1/8 - A cycle track commencing at a point 50 metres south of 5 the junction of Melton Street with Euston Street and terminating at apoint 65 metres north-east of the junction of Robert Street with Hampstead Road;Work No. 1/8A - A cycle track, commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 1/11 at a point 8 metres east of the junction of Hampstead Road 10 with Varndell Street and terminating in Varndell Street at a point 32metres west of that junction;Work No. 1/9 - A sewer forming a diversion of sewers in Chalton Streetand Phoenix Road, commencing in Chalton Street beneath a point atthe junction of Chalton Street with Euston Road and terminating by 15 a junction with the termination of Work No. 1/9A beneath a point 3metres west of the junction of Phoenix Road with Eversholt Street;Work No. 1/9A - A diversion of a sewer in Doric Way and EversholtStreet, commencing beneath a point 15 metres north-east of the junction of Doric Way with Eversholt Street and terminating by a 20 junction with the termination of Work No. 1/9 beneath a point 3metres west of the junction of Phoenix Road with Eversholt Street;Work No. 1/9B - A diversion of the Fleet Sewer in Euston Road, commencing beneath a point 30 metres north-east of the junction of Euston Road with Gower Street and terminating by a junction with 25 that sewer beneath a point 18 metres west of the junction of EustonRoad with Upper Woburn Place;Work No. 1/9C - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point90 metres north of the junction of Euston Road with Gordon Streetand terminating by a junction with that sewer in Euston Square 30 beneath a point 55 metres north-west of the junction of Euston Roadwith Upper Woburn Place;Work No. 1/10 - A cycletrack and footpath commencing at a point 60metres east of the junction of Varndell Street with Hampstead Roadand terminating at the junction of Eversholt Street with Barnby 35 Street. Work No. 1/10 includes a bridge over Works Nos. 1/1 and 1/2 and the West Coast Main Line Railway;Work No. 1/10A - An access road commencing in Euston Station at apoint 200 metres east of the junction of Varndell Street with Hampstead Road and terminating in Eversholt Street at a point 28 40 metres south-east of the junction of that street with Barnby Street.Work No 1/10A includes a bridge over Work No. 1/2 and the WestCoast Main Line Railway;Work No. 1/11 - A realignment of Hampstead Road commencing at apoint 65 metres south of its junction with Robert Street and 45 terminating at a point 53 metres south of its junction with Harrington Square. Work No 1/11 includes a bridge over Works Nos. 1/1 and1/2 and the West Coast Main Line Railway;Work No. 1/11A - A temporary cycle track commencing by a junctionwith Work No.1/11 at a point 108 metres south-east of the junction 50 of Mackworth Street with Harrington Street and terminating by a junction with Work No. 1/14 at a point 58 metres south-west of the junction of Harrington Square with Lidlington Place. Work No. 1/
￼￼￼34High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works11A includes a bridge over Works Nos. 1/1 and 1/2 and the WestCoast Main Line Railway;Work No. 1/11B - A temporary bridge over Work No. 1/2 and the WestCoast Main Line Railway commencing at a point 108 metres north-east of the junction of Mackworth Street with Harrington Street and 5 terminating at a point 60 metres south-east of the junction of Granby Terrace with Hampstead Road;Work No. 1/11C - A temporary bridge over Work No. 1/2 and the WestCoast Main Line Railway commencing at a point 90 metres south-east of the junction of Granby Terrace with Harrington Street and 10 terminating at a point 25 metres south-west of the junction of Hampstead Road with Granby Terrace;Work No. 1/12 - A diversion of a sewer in Hampstead Road commencing beneath a point 5 metres north-west of the junction of Hampstead Road with Robert Street and terminating beneath a point 15 57 metres north of the junction of Hampstead Road with VarndellStreet;Work No. 1/12A - A diversion of a sewer in Varndell Street andHarrington Street commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/12 beneath a point 4 metres east of the junction of Hampstead Road 20 with Varndell Street and terminating beneath a point 50 metres northof the junction of Mackworth Street with Harrington Street;Work No. 1/12B - A diversion of a sewer in Mackworth Street, commencing beneath a point 16 metres east of the junction of Mackworth Street with Harrington Street and terminating beneath a 25 point 37 metres east of the junction of Stanhope Street with Mackworth Street;Work No. 1/12C - A diversion of a sewer in Granby Terrace, commencing beneath a point 9 metres west of the junction of Stanhope Street with Granby Terrace and terminating beneath a 30 point 30 metres west of the junction of Granby Terrace with Harrington Street;Work No. 1/12D - A diversion of a sewer in Mornington Terrace, commencing beneath a point 53 metres south east of the junction of Mornington Terrace with Mornington Street and terminating 35 beneath a point 85 metres north-east of the junction of Park VillageEast with Mornington Street;Work No. 1/13 - A diversion of Granby Terrace commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/11 at a point 30 metres north of the junction of that road with Hampstead Road and terminating at a 40 point 4 metres south-west of the junction of Granby Terrace with Stanhope Street. Work No. 1/13 includes a bridge over Works Nos.1/1, 1/2 and the West Coast Main Line Railway;Work No. 1/14 - A realignment of parts of Harrington Square andMornington Crescent, commencing at a point 40 metres south-west 45 of the junction of Harrington Square with Lidlington Place and terminating at a point 48 metres north-west of the junction of Hampstead Road with Mornington Crescent.London Borough of Camden, City of Westminster, London Borough ofBrent, Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea, London Boroughs of 50 Hammersmith and Fulham, Ealing and Hillingdon—Work No. 1/15 - A railway (22.77 kilometres in length) partly in tunnel commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 1/1 and 1/16 at a point￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works35￼40 metres north-east of the junction of Stanhope Street with Granby Terrace passing north westwards and terminating at a point 84metres north-west of the bridge carrying Ickenham Road over the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line, and including shafts at SalusburyRoad, Westgate, Greenpark Way, Mandeville Road and South 5 Ruislip, a station at Old Oak Common and a crossover box at VictoriaRoad.London Borough of Camden—Work No. 1/16 - A railway (0.57 kilometres in length) partly in tunnel commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 1/1 and 1/15 at a point 10 40 metres north-east of the junction of Stanhope Street with Granby Terrace passing north westwards and terminating at a point 52metres south-west of the junction of Delancey Street with Mornington Terrace;Work No. 1/17 - A railway siding (0.50 kilometres in length) 15 commencing at a point 81 metres north-east of the junction of Stanhope Street with Granby Terrace passing north westwards and terminating at a point 60 metres south-east of the junction of Delancey Street with Mornington Terrace;Work No. 1/18 -A water main commencing in Euston Road beneath a 20 point 43 metres east of the junction of that road with Gordon Streetand terminating at a point 270 metres to the north-west of the junction of Albany Street with Redhill Street;Work No. 1/18A - A water main commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 18 beneath a point 270 metres to the north- 25 west of the junction of Albany Street with Redhill Street, and terminating beneath a point 105 metres south-west of the junction of Gloucester Avenue with Regent’s Park Road;Work No. 1/19 - A reconstruction of the bridge carrying MorningtonStreet over Works Nos. 1/1, 1/2, 1/15, 1/16 and 1/17 and the West 30 Coast Main Line Railway commencing at the junction of Park VillageEast with Mornington Street and terminating at the junction of Mornington Street with Mornington Terrace;Work No. 1/19A - A temporary bridge over Works Nos. 1/1, 1/2, 1/15,1/16 and 1/17 and the West Coast Main Line Railway commencing 35 on Park Village East at a point 152 metres south-east of the junctionof that road with Mornington Street and terminating on Mornington Terrace at a point 160 metres south-east of the junction of that roadwith Mornington Street;Work No. 1/20 - A railway (90 metres in length), forming the HS1 Link 40 Silo Curve connection commencing by a junction with the HS1 linkto the North London Line at a point 180 metres south east of the junction of Camley Street with Cedar Way and terminating by a junction with Work No. 1/21 at a point 115 metres east of the junction of Camley Street with Cedar Way. 45City of Westminster, Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea, London Boroughs of Islington, Camden, Brent and Hammersmith and Fulham—Work No. 1/21 - A railway (9.25 kilometres in length), partly in tunnel, commencing by a junction with the North London Line to HS1 at apoint 70 metres north east of the bridge carrying York Way over that 50 railway, passing westwards and terminating in sidings at the NorthPole Depot at a point 230 metres east of the junction of Old Oak
￼￼￼36High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksCommon Lane with Wells House Road. Work No. 1/21 includes the alteration and partial widening of the viaduct carrying the North London Line, shafts at the HS1-HS2 Link, Alexandra Place and Salusbury Road and a station at Old Oak Common.London Borough of Camden— 5 Work No. 1/22 - A realignment of the North London Line Incline (0.25 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with that railway ata point 130 metres east of the junction of Camley Street with CedarWay and terminating at a point 130 metres north-west of the junctionof Camley Street with Cedar Way; 10 Work No. 1/23 - A realignment of the North London Line (2.09 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with that railway ata point 184 metres west of the bridge carrying York Way over that railway and terminating at a point 168 metres east of the junction ofEton Road with Adelaide Road. Work No. 1/23 includes the 15 alteration and partial widening of the viaduct carrying the North London Line;Work No. 1/24 - A realignment of the North London Line (1.30 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with that railway ata point 55 metres west of the bridge carrying York Way over that 20 railway and terminating at a point 20 metres south east of the bridge carrying that railway over Castlehaven Street. Work No. 1/24 includes the alteration and partial widening of the viaduct carryingthe North London Line;Work No. 1/25 - A footbridge over the Midland Main Line and 25 Thameslink Line commencing on the west side of those railways at apoint 100 metres north east of the junction of Camley Street withCedar Way and terminating on the east side of those railways at apoint 120 metres north east of that junction;Work No. 1/26 - A diversion of a sewer commencing in Parkway 30beneath a point 45 metres south west of the junction of Gloucester Avenue with Delancey Street and terminating beneath a point 25 metres west of that junction;Work No. 1/27 - A railway siding (0.89 kilometres in length), partly in tunnel, commencing by a junction with carriage siding and the West 35 Coast Main Line at a point 22 metres south-east of the junction of Gloucester Avenue with Parkway and terminating at a point 44metres east of the junction of King Henry’s Road with Regent’s ParkRoad;Work No. 1/28 - A diversion of a sewer commencing in Gloucester 40 Avenue beneath a point 66 metres east of the junction of Regent’sPark Road with Gloucester Avenue and terminating beneath a point10 metres east of the junction of Oval Road with Gloucester Crescent;Work No. 1/29 - A diversion of a sewer in Princess Road and St Mark’s Square commencing beneath the junction of Prince Albert Road with 45 St Mark’s Square and terminating in Gloucester Avenue beneath apoint 48 metres east of the junction of Gloucester Avenue with EdisStreet;Work No. 1/30 - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with the roundabout at Juniper Crescent and terminating at 50 a point 132 metres north west of its commencement;Work No. 1/31 - A diversion of a water main in Avenue Road commencing beneath a point 10 metres south-east of the junction of￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works37￼Avenue Road and Adelaide Road and terminating in Avenue Road beneath a point 174 metres north-west of that junction.City of Westminster and London Borough of Camden—Work No. 1/32 - A diversion of a water main in Abbey Roadcommencing beneath the junction of Abbey Road with Boundary 5 Road and terminating beneath a point 33 metres south-east of the junction of Abbey Road with Belsize Road.London Borough of Camden—Work No. 1/33 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point118 metres north-east of the junction of Langtry Road with Kilburn 10 Priory and terminating in Belsize Road beneath a point 10 metres north-east of its junction with Priory Terrace.London Borough of Brent—Work No. 1/34 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point130 metres north of the junction of Gorefield Place with Chichester 15 Road and terminating on Brondesbury Villas beneath a point 85metres north-east of the junction of Hazelmere Road with Brondesbury Villas.Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham— 20Work No. 1/35 - A railway siding (0.95 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the Great Western Main Line at apoint 240 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Ladbroke Groveover that railway and terminating in North Pole Depot at a point 65metres east of the termination of Mitre Way. Work No. 1/35 includes 25 a depot at North Pole sidings.Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea—Work No. 1/36 - A railway siding (0.30 kilometres in length)commencing in North Pole Depot at a point 344 metres west of thebridge carrying Ladbroke Grove over the Great Western Main Line 30 and terminating at a point 170 metres north-east of the junction ofSutton Way with Dalgarno Way. Work No. 1/36 includes a depot atNorth Pole sidings.London Boroughs of Hammersmith and Fulham and Ealing—Work No. 1/37 - A realignment of the Great Western Main Line (2.66 35kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with that railway at a point 140 metres north east of the termination of Mitre Way and terminating at a point 35 metres east of the bridge carrying Horn Lane over the Great Western Main Line.London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham— 40Work No. 1/38 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point90 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Scrubs Lane over theGreat Western Main Line and terminating in Scrubs Lane beneath apoint 34 metres north of the bridge carrying that road over the GrandUnion Canal; 45Work No. 1/39 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath railway sidings at a point 227 metres north-west of the north-east corner of North Pole Depot and terminating beneath a point 20 metres west of the north west corner of North Pole Depot.
￼￼￼38High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksLondon Borough of Ealing—Work No. 1/40 - A realignment of Old Oak Common Lanecommencing at a point 100 metres north-west of its junction with Wulfstan Street and terminating at a point 184 metres north east ofits junction with Wells House Road. 5London Boroughs of Hammersmith and Fulham and Ealing—Work No. 1/41 - A realignment of an access road commencing on thatroad at a point 60 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Old Oak Common Lane over the Great Western Main Line and terminating bya junction with Work No. 1/40 at a point 185 metres north west of the 10 junction of Old Oak Common Lane with Wolfstan Street.London Borough of Ealing—Work No. 1/42 - An accommodation access road commencing on OldOak Common Lane at a point 205 metres south of its junction withWells House Road and terminating at a point 90 metres south west 15 of its commencement;Work No. 1/43 - A temporary bridge over the London Underground Central Line commencing at a point 120 metres west of the bridge carrying the Great Western Main Line over Old Oak Common Laneand terminating at a point 134 metres west of that bridge; 20Work No. 1/44 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point 50 metres north of the junction of Uneeda Drive with Greenford Road and terminating in Greenford Road beneath a point 100 metres north of the junction of Greenford Road with Rockware Avenue;Work No. 1/45 - An improvement of Wales Farm Road, Victoria Road 25 and Old Oak Lane commencing at the junction of the A4000 withWales Farm Road and terminating in Old Oak Lane at a point 96metres north-east of the junction of Victoria Road with Old OakLane;Work No. 1/46 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes 30commencing at a point 100 metres west of the junction of Bethune Road with Victoria Road and terminating in Willesden Euroterminal at a point 190 metres south of the junction of Bramshill Road with Harley Road;Work No. 1/47 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes 35 commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/46 at a point 275 metresnorth west of the junction of Victoria Road and Old Oak Lane and terminating in Willesden Euroterminal at a point 300 metres southeast of the bridge carrying the Cricklewood Line over the GrandUnion Canal (Paddington Branch); 40Work No. 1/48 - A temporary bridge over the Grand Union Canal (Paddington Branch) commencing at a point 230 metres south-east of the bridge carrying the Cricklewood Line over that Canal and terminating at a point 45 metres north east of its commencement;Work No. 1/49 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes 45 commencing in Willesden Euroterminal at a point 410 metres east ofthe bridge carrying the Cricklewood Line over the Grand UnionCanal (Paddington Branch) and terminating by a junction with WorkNo. 1/46 at a point 84 metres north-east of that bridge.London Boroughs of Ealing and Brent— 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works39￼Work No. 1/50 - A realignment of a railway siding (1.08 kilometres in length) commencing at a point 388 metres south-east of the bridge carrying the Station Road over the West Coast Main Line and terminating in Willesden Euroterminal at a point 205 metres north ofthe bridge carrying the Cricklewood Line over the Grand Union 5 Canal (Paddington Branch);Work No. 1/51 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes commencing in Willesden Euroterminal at a point 155 metres southof the junction of Bramshill Road with Harley Road and terminatingat a point 100 metres south east of the bridge carrying the 10 Cricklewood Line over the Grand Union Canal (Paddington Branch).London Borough of Brent—Work No. 1/52 - A railway siding (0.89 kilometres in length)commencing by a junction with the Willesden Relief Line at a point265 metres north east of the termination of Waxlow Road and 15 terminating at a point 60 metres south east of the bridge carrying theWest Coast Main Line over the North Circular Road.London Boroughs of Ealing and Brent—Work No. 1/53 - A diversion of a sewer commencing in Alperton Lane beneath a point 18 metres west of the junction of Alperton Lane with 20 Manor Farm Road and terminating in Western Avenue beneath apoint 62 metres west of the junction of Western Avenue with Alperton Lane.London Borough of Ealing—Work No. 1/54 - A temporary realignment of the Wycombe Single Line 25(0.81 kilometres in length), commencing at a point 213 metres south- east of the termination of Rockware Avenue passing westwards and terminating at a point 10 metres west of the bridge carrying Greenford Road over that railway;Work No. 1/55 - A diversion of a sewer beneath the London 30 Underground Central Line and the Wycombe Single Line commencing beneath a point 314 metres east of the junction of Belvue Road with Rowdell Road and terminating beneath a point130 metres south-east of the junction of Carr Road with Cherry Gardens. 35London Borough of Hillingdon—Work No. 1/56 - A diversion of a sewer beneath the LondonUnderground Central Line, the Wycombe Single Line and the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line commencing in Great Central Avenue beneath a point 11 metres east of the junction of that road 40 with Cedar Avenue and terminating beneath a point 185 metres north-east of that junction;Work No. 1/57 - A diversion of a sewer beneath the London Underground Central Line and the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line commencing in Bridgewater Road beneath a point 10 metres north- 45 east of the junction of that road with Carmichael Close and terminating beneath a point 165 metres north of the bridge carryingthat railway over Bridgwater Road;Work No. 1/58 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point66 metres north-east of the junction of Bedford Road with West End 50
￼￼￼40High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksRoad and terminating beneath a point 35 metres north of itscommencement;Work No. 1/59 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point60 metres south of the junction of West End Road with Bedford Roadand terminating in West End Road beneath a point 5 metres south 5 east of its junction with Sidmouth Drive;Work No. 1/60 - A realignment of a railway siding (0.30 kilometres in length) at West Ruislip Station commencing at a point 53 metres westof the bridge carrying Ickenham Road over the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line and terminating at a point 300 metres west of its 10 commencement;Work No. 1/61 - A railway (2.27 kilometres in length), partly in tunnel commencing by a junction with the termination of Works Nos. 1/15and 1/1 passing north westwards and terminating at a point 225metres north of the junction of Harvil Road with Skip Lane. Work 15 No. 1/61 includes a shaft at West Ruislip and bridges over the RiverPinn and Breakspear Road South;Work No. 1/62 - A footbridge with ramps over Works Nos. 1/60, 1/61and 1/63 commencing at a point 102 metres east of the junction ofThe Greenway with footpath U81 and terminating at a point 140 20 metres north-east of that junction;Work No. 1/63 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes commencing at a point 150 metres north east of the junction of The Greenway with footpath U81 and terminating at a point 400 metresnorth west of the bridge carrying the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line 25 over Breakspear Road South;Work No. 1/64 - A diversion of a watercourse in Ruislip Golf Course commencing at a point 80 metres north-east of the bridge carryingthe Marylebone to Aylesbury Line over Ickenham Stream and terminating in the River Pinn at a point 52 metres north-east of the 30 bridge carrying that railway over the River Pinn;Work No. 1/65 - A diversion of a sewer in Ruislip Golf Course commencing beneath a point 26 metres south west of the bridge carrying the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line over Ickenham Streamand terminating beneath a point 230 metres north-east of the 35 termination of The Greenway;Work No. 1/66 - A temporary railway siding (1.87 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line ata point 36 metres east of the bridge carrying that railway over Ickenham Stream passing in a north-westerly direction and 40 terminating at a point 196 metres north east of the bridge carryingHarvil Road over that railway. Work No. 1/66 includes bridges overthe River Pinn and Work No. 1/67;Work No. 1/67 - A regrading of Breakspear Road South commencingat a point 8 metres west of the junction of that road with footpath U43 45 and terminating at a point 60 metres north of the junction of that roadwith Copthall Road West;Work No. 1/68 - An access road commencing on Breakspear RoadSouth at a point 90 metres north-east of the junction of that road with footpath U46 and terminating on bridleway U42 at a point 124 50 metres north west of the junction of that road with footpath U46;Work No. 1/69 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/63 at a point 200 metres￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works41￼north west of the bridge carrying the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line over Breakspear Road South and terminating by a junction with the commencement of Work No. 1/71 at a point 220 metres west of that bridge;Work No. 1/70 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes 5 commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 1/63 ata point 400 metres north west of the bridge carrying the Maryleboneto Aylesbury Line over Breakspear Road South and terminating by a junction with Work No. 1/71 at a point 430 metres west of that bridge; 10Work No. 1/71 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 1/69and terminating by a junction with the commencement of Work No.1/73 at a point 444 metres east of the bridge carrying Harvil Roadover the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line; 15Work No. 1/72 - A diversion of a gas main commencing beneath a point480 metres west of the bridge carrying the Marylebone to AylesburyLine over Breakspear Road South and terminating beneath a point600 metres north east of the bridge carrying Harvil Road over the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line; 20Work No. 1/73 - A temporary conveyor for construction purposes commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 1/71 and terminating at a point 448 metres south east of the bridge carrying Harvil Road over the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line;Work No. 1/74 - A temporary bridge commencing at a point 436 metres 25 south east of the bridge carrying Harvil Road over the Maryleboneto Aylesbury Line and terminating at a point 436 metres east of that bridge;Work No. 1/75 - A temporary railway siding (0.38 kilometres in length), commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/66 at a point 338 30 metres east of the bridge carrying Harvil Road over the Maryleboneto Aylesbury Line and terminating at a point 40 metres west of that bridge;Work No. 1/76 - A realignment (part) of Harvil Road commencing at apoint 230 metres south-east of the junction of that road with Skip 35 Lane and terminating at a point 223 metres north of that junction.Work No. 1/76 includes a bridge over the Aylesbury to MaryleboneLine;Work No. 1/77 - An access road commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 1/76 at a point 190 metres south-east of the junction of Harvil 40 Road with Skip Lane and terminating on Harvil Road at a point 77metres south-east of that junction;Work No. 1/78 - A realignment of Newyears Green Lane commencingat a point 456 metres west of the junction of that road with bridlewayU42 and terminating at a point 114 metres west of its 45 commencement.London Borough of Hillingdon, County of Buckinghamshire, District ofSouth Bucks, Parish of Denham, District of Chiltern, Parishes of Chalfont St.Peter, Chalfont St. Giles, Amersham, Coleshill and Little Missenden, Countyof Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers— 50Work No. 2/1 - A railway (19.27 kilometres in length), partly on viaduct and partly in tunnel, commencing by a junction with Work No. 1/61 at its termination, continuing north-westwards and terminating at a
￼￼￼42High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled workspoint 530 metres north of the junction of footpath LMI/17/2 withfootpath LMI/17/1;Work No. 2/1 includes viaducts over Newyears Green Bourne,Harefield No.2 Lake, the Grand Union Canal, Savay Lake, MoorhillRoad, Kroda Lake, Long Lake, the River Colne and the A412 5 Denham Way (North Orbital Road) and shafts at Chalfont St. Peter, Chalfont St. Giles, Amersham and Little Missenden.London Borough of Hillingdon—Work No. 2/1A - A diversion of the Newyears Green Bourne commencing at a point 320 metres south west of the junction of 10 Harvil Road with Dews Lane and terminating 130 metres west of its commencement;Work No. 2/1B - A realignment of railway sidings (0.36 kilometres in length), commencing at a point 587 metres south of the junction ofHarvil Road with Dews Lane and terminating at a point 597 metres 15 south-west of that junction;Work No. 2/1C - A diversion of Harvil Road, commencing on that roadat a point 434 metres south-east of the junction of that road withDews Lane and terminating at a point 44 metres south of that junction. Work No. 2/1C includes a bridge over Work No. 2/1; 20Work No. 2/1D - A diversion of a gas main commencing at a point 515 metres south- west of the junction of New Years Green Lane and footpath U42 and terminating at a point 585 metres north-west of the junction of Harvil Road with Skip Lane;Work No. 2/2 - A realignment of Dews Lane, forming an access to 25 Hillingdon Outdoor Activities Centre commencing by a junction ofthat road with Harvil Road and terminating at the entrance to the Hillingdon Outdoor Activity Centre;Work No. 2/2A - An accommodation road, forming an access to the electricity supply facility, commencing on Harvil Road at a point 390 30 metres north-west of its junction with New Years Green Lane and terminating at a point 297 metres south-west of its commencement;Work No. 2/2B - A temporary access road beneath Work No. 2/1 commencing by a junction with Work No.2/2 at a point 36 metres north-east of the entrance to the Hillingdon Outdoor Activities 35 Centre and terminating in the grounds of the Hillingdon Outdoor Activities Centre at a point 177 metres west of its commencement;Work No. 2/3 - A temporary bridge over the Grand Union Canal commencing on the western towpath of that canal at a point 38metres north-west of the viaduct carrying the Chiltern Main Line 40 over that canal and terminating on the eastern towpath at a point 128metres north of that viaduct;Work No. 2/4 - A temporary bridge over the Grand Union Canal commencing at a point on the western towpath of that canal at apoint 495 metres south of the viaduct carrying the Chiltern Main Line 45 over that canal and terminating on the eastern towpath 57 metres north-east of its commencement.London Borough of Hillingdon, County of Buckinghamshire, District of South Bucks, Parish of Denham—Work No. 2/4A - A temporary bridge over the River Colne 50 commencing at a point on the eastern bank of that river 689 metres north-west of the junction of footpath U75 with footpath U50 and￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works43￼terminating on the western bank 46 metres south-west of itscommencement;Work No. 2/5 - A diversion of the River Colne commencing at a point644 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Moorfield Road overthat river and terminating at a point 156 metres north of its 5 commencement.County of Buckinghamshire, District of South Bucks, Parish of Denham—Work No. 2/6 - A diversion of a gas main commencing at a point 350metres south of the junction of bridleway DEN/3/1 with DenhamWay (North Orbital Road), extending north-eastwards beneath that 10 road and terminating 98 metres north-east of its commencement.County of Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers—Work No. 2/7 - A diversion of Tilehouse Lane commencing at a point16 metres north-east of the junction of that road with bridleway Ricks 002/Shire Lane and terminating on Tilehouse Lane at a point 92 15 metres south-west of the junction of that road with Denham Way (North Orbital Road). Work No. 2/7 includes a bridge over WorkNo. 2/1;Work No. 2/7A - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/7 at a point 350 metres south-west of the 20 junction of Tilehouse Lane with Denham Way (North Orbital Road)and terminating on bridleway Ricks 004 at a point 280 metres west ofthat junction;Work No. 2/7B - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/7 at a point 562 meters north-west of the 25 commencement of Work No. 2/7 and terminating on bridlewayRicks 004 at a point 68 metres south-west of the junction of that bridleway with bridleway 002/Shire Lane;Work No. 2/7C - An accommodation access road, commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/7 at a point 548 metres north west of the 30 commencement of Work No.2/7 and terminating at the junction of bridleway Ricks 004 with bridleway Ricks 002/Shire Lane;Work No. 2/7D - A temporary accommodation access road, being a diversion of bridleway Ricks 004, commencing on bridleway Ricks004 at a point 633 metres south- west of its junction with Denham 35 Way (North Orbital Road) and terminating 364 metres north-east ofits commencement;Work No. 2/7E - A temporary accommodation access road commencing on Tilehouse Lane at a point 20 metres north of the junction of that road with bridleway Ricks 002/Shire Lane and 40 terminating by junction with Work No. 2/7C at a point 54 metres eastof the junction of bridleway Ricks 004 with bridleway Ricks 002/ Shire Lane.County of Buckinghamshire, District of South Bucks, Parish of Denham—Work No. 2/7F - A temporary accommodation access road 45commencing at the junction of Shire Lane/Ricks 002/DEN2/1 with footpath CSP/43/2 and terminating at a point 366 metres south-west of its commencement.County of Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers —Work No. 2/8 - A realignment of Chalfont Lane, commencing at the 50 junction of that road with Denham Way (North Orbital Road) and
￼￼￼44High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksterminating in that road at a point 90 metres south-east of thejunction of Shire Lane over the M25 Motorway;Work No. 2/8A - A temporary slip road commencing by a junctionwith Work No. 2/8 at a point 40 metres east of its termination and terminating on the southbound carriageway of the M25 Motorway at 5 a point 202 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Hornhill Roadover that motorway;Work No. 2/8B - An accommodation road, commencing on ChalfontLane at a point 865 metres west of its junction with A412 DenhamWay (North Orbital Road) and terminating at a point 78 metres north 10 of its commencement.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Chiltern, Parish of Chalfont St. Peter, County of Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers—Work No. 2/9 - A temporary slip road commencing on Shire Lane at apoint 220 metres south-east of the junction of that road with West 15 Hyde Lane and terminating on the northbound carriageway of theM25 Motorway, 196 metres south of the bridge carrying HornhillRoad over that motorway;Work No. 2/10 - An accommodation access road commencing on anaccess road at a point 50 metres west of the bridge carrying Shire 20 Lane over the M25 Motorway and terminating on Shire Lane at apoint 180 metres south-east of its junction with West Hyde Lane;Work No. 2/10A - A temporary road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/10 at its termination and terminating by a junction with Hornhill Road at a point 94 metres west of the bridge carrying 25 Hornhill Road over the M25 Motorway.Parishes of Chalfont St. Giles, Amersham and Coleshill—Work No. 2/11 - A realignment of Bottom House Farm Lane commencing at a point 48 metres north-east of Hobbs Hole Cottageand terminating at the junction of that lane with Amersham Road. 30Parish of Amersham—Work No. 2/12 - A diversion of a cycle track, commencing at a point 20metres south-east of the junction of the A404 Whielden Lane and terminating on that cycle track at a point 70 metres east of the junction of the A404 with the A413. 35Parish of Little Missenden—Work No. 2/13 - An accommodation access road being a diversion of afarm track commencing on that farm track at a point 146 metresnorth of Mantle’s Farm and terminating at the junction of that trackwith Hyde Heath Road; 40Work No. 2/13A - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/13 at a point 54 metres north of its commencement and terminating on footpath LMI/17/2 at a point 90 metres north-east of its junction with footpath LMI/17/1.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Chiltern, Parishes of Little 45 Missenden, Great Missenden and The Lee, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parishof Wendover—Work No. 2/14 - A railway (8.3 kilometres in length) partly in tunneland partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/1, at its termination, continuing north-westwards, and terminating at 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works45￼a point 240 metres north-west of the roundabout joining the A413 London Road with Small Dean Lane; Work No. 2/14 includes a viaduct over the A413 London Road, the Marylebone to Aylesbury Line and Small Dean Lane.Parish of Great Missenden— 5 Work No. 2/15 - An accommodation access road, commencing onHyde Lane at its junction with footpath GMI/27/1 and terminatingat a point 12 metres east of the junction of footpaths GMI/27/1 and GMI/26/1 with footpath GMI/23/6. Work No. 2/15 includes abridge over Work No. 2/14; 10 Work No. 2/15A - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/15 at a point 176 metres west of the junction of footpaths GMI/27/1 and GMI/26/1 with footpath GMI/23/6 and terminating at a point 64 metres north of itscommencement; 15 Work No. 2/16 - A realignment of Hyde Lane commencing on that roadat a point 10 metres north of its junction with footpath GMI/27/1and terminating on that road at a point 270 metres south-west of its junction with Chesham Road. Work No. 2/16 includes a bridge overWork No. 2/14; 20Work No. 2/17 - A diversion of Chesham Road, commencing at a point 180 metres west of the junction of that road with Kings Lane and terminating at a point 130 metres north-east of that junction;Work No. 2/17A - A diversion of King’s Lane, commencing on King’sLane at a point 410 metres north of the junction of that road with 25 Chesham Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/17 ata point 124 metres north-east of the junction of that road with Chesham Road;Work No. 2/17B - A diversion of Chesham Road, commencing on Chesham Road at a point 112 metres west of the junction of that road 30 with Hyde Lane and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/17at its junction with the termination of Work No. 2/17A;Work No. 2/18 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/14, being a diversionof footpath GMI/12/1, commencing on that footpath at a point 378metres south-west of the junction of that footpath with Potter Row 35 and terminating at a point 168 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 2/18A - A realignment of Frith Hill commencing on that roadat a point 350 metres south-west of its junction with Kings Lane andPotter Row and terminating on that road at a point 132 metres north-east of its commencement; 40Work No. 2/18B - An accommodation access road over Work No. 2/14, commencing at a point 460 metres west of the junction of Frith Hill with Potter Row, and terminating at a point 370 metres north-west of that junction;Work No. 2/19 - An accommodation access road, commencing on the 45 access road to Havenfield Lodge, at a point 618 metres south-west ofthe junction of that road with Potter Row and terminating on thatroad at a point 137 metres south-west of that junction. Work No. 2/19 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/14.Parishes of Great Missenden and The Lee— 50Work No. 2/20 - A diversion of Leather Lane commencing on that road at a point 720 metres west of the junction of that road with King’s
￼￼￼46High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksLane and Potter Row and terminating on that road at a point 116 metres west of that junction. Work No. 2/20 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/14.Parish of The Lee—Work No. 2/21 - An accommodation access road, being a realignment 5of a track to Cottage Farm, commencing on that track at a point 665 metres south-west of the junction of that road with King’s Lane and terminating on that track at a point 159 metres south-west of that junction. Work No. 2/21 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/14.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover— 10 Work No. 2/22 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/14, being a realignmentof footpaths WEN/38/1 and TLE/2/2 commencing on footpath WEN/38/1 at a point 494 metres south-west of the junction of King’sLane with Bowood Lane and terminating on footpath TLE/2/2 at apoint 12 metres west of its junction with Kings Lane; 15Work No. 2/23 - A realignment of Bowood Lane commencing on that road at a point 487 metres west of its junction with King’s Lane and terminating on that road at a point 201 metres west of that junction. Work No. 2/23 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/14.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover— 20 Work No. 2/23A - An accommodation access road, being a realignmentof a track, commencing at a point 312 metres south-east of the junction of Bowood Lane with footpath WEN/39/2 and terminatingon that track at a point 130 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/23B - An accommodation access road, being a realignment 25 of a track, commencing on footpath WEN/39/2 and access track at apoint 140 metres north of the junction of that access with BowoodLane and terminating on footpath WEN/39/1 and that track at apoint 280 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 2/24 - A diversion of Rocky Lane under Work No. 2/14, 30commencing at a point 390 metres north-west of the junction of that road with footpath WEN/39/1 and terminating on that road at a point 158 metres east of its junction with the A413 London Road;Work No. 2/24A - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/24 at a point 223 metres east of the 35 junction of Rocky Lane with the A413 London Road and terminatingat a point 75 metres south of its commencement;Work No. 2/25 - An accommodation access road, being a realignmentof a track, commencing on the A413 London Road at a point 460metres south-east of the junction of that road with Hale Road and 40 terminating on that track at a point 38 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/25A - A temporary road being a diversion of the A413 London Road commencing at a point 450 metres south of the roundabout with London Road and Small Dean Lane and 45 terminating 316 metres south of that roundabout;Work No. 2/26 - A realignment of Small Dean Lane, commencing at apoint 368 metres south of the roundabout joining that road with theA413 London Road and terminating at a point 36 metres south-westof that roundabout; 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works47￼Work No. 2/27 - An accommodation road commencing on bridleway WEN/57/1 and access track at a point 180 metres north-west of the roundabout joining the A413 London Road with Small Dean Laneand terminating on the access to Grove Farm at a point 70 metres south-west of its junction with footpath WEN/57/1. 5County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parishes of Wendover, Stoke Mandeville and Stone with Bishopstone and Hartwell, District of Wycombe, Parish of Ellesborough—Work No. 2/28 - A railway (8.98 kilometres in length) partly in tunnel, commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/14 at its termination and 10 terminating at a point 540 metres south-west of the roundabout junction of the A418 Oxford Road with Coldharbour Way; Work No.2/28 includes bridges over Chalkshire Stream, Stoke Brook and Sedrup Ditch.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover— 15 Work No. 2/29 - A temporary road, being a diversion of Bacombe Lane, commencing on Ellesborough Road at a point 305 metres south-westof the bridge carrying that road over the A413 London Road and terminating on Bacombe Lane at a point 325 metres south-west of thebridge carrying that road over the A413 London Road; 20Work No. 2/29A -A diversion of Bacombe Lane, commencing on that road at a point 242 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that road over the A413 London Road and terminating on that bridge;Work No. 2/30 - A realignment of Ellesborough Road commencing onthat road at a point 438 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that 25 road over the A413 London Road and terminating on that road at apoint 60 metres south-west of that bridge;Work No. 2/31 - A temporary road being a diversion of EllesboroughRoad commencing by a junction with the commencement of WorkNo. 2/30 and terminating by a junction with the termination of Work 30 No. 2/30;Work No. 2/33 - An accommodation access road, being a realignmentof a track, commencing on footpath WEN/55/1 and access track at apoint 67 metres north-east of the junction of that footpath with footpath WEN/6/2 and terminating on that footpath and 35 accommodation track at a point 5 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that footpath over the A413 Wendover Bypass.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover, District of Wycombe, Parish of Ellesborough—Work No. 2/34 - A diversion of Nash Lee Road, commencing on the 40 roundabout at the junction of that road with the A413 Wendover Bypass and terminating on that road at a point 230 metres west of the junction of that road with Nash Lee Lane. Work No. 2/34 includes abridge over Work No. 2/28.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover— 45 Work No. 2/34A - A spur road, commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 2/34 at a point 178 metres west of the roundabout at the junctionof Nash Lee Road with the A413 Wendover Bypass and terminatingon Nash Lee Lane at a point 114 metres north-east of the junction ofthat road with Nash Lee Road. 50
￼￼￼48High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksDistrict of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Stoke Mandeville, District of Wycombe, Parish of Ellesborough—Work No. 2/35 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/28, being a diversionof footpath ELL/20/1, commencing on that footpath at a point 377metres north of the junction of that footpath with Nash Lee Road and 5 terminating by a junction with footpath SMA/6/1 at a point 136metres west of the junction of that footpath with footpath ELL/20/1;Work No. 2/36 - A diversion of the A4010 Risborough Road, commencing on that road at a point 360 metres south-east of the junction of that road with Old Risborough Road and terminating by 10 a junction with the B4443 Lower Road at a point 584 metres south-east of the junction of that road with Kynaston Avenue. Work No. 2/ 36 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/28.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Stoke Mandeville—Work No. 2/36A - An access road commencing by a junction with 15Work No. 2/36 at a point 320 metres south-east of the junction of footpaths SMA/16/2 and SMA/16/3 with the Princes Risborough to Aylesbury Railway and terminating by a junction with footpath SMA/11/2 at a point 164 metres south-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/36B - A road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/ 20 36 at a point 164 metres south of the junction of the A4010 Risborough Road with Old Risborough Road and terminating on theA4010 Risborough Road at a point 64 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/37 - An underpass beneath Work No. 2/28, being a 25 diversion of the footway/cycleway along the A4010 RisboroughRoad commencing at a point 85 metres north of the junction of thatroad with Old Risborough Road and terminating on that footway ata point 144 metres north of its commencement.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Stoke Mandeville, District of Wycombe, 30 Parish of Ellesborough—Work No. 2/38 - An accommodation access road, being a diversion of footpaths SMA/9/1 and SMA/8/2, commencing at a point 400metres south-west of the junction of footpaths SMA/9/2 and SMA/10/1 with footpath SMA/15A/1 and terminating on footpath SMA/ 35 15A/1 at the junction of that footpath with Marsh Lane. Work No.2/38 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/28.District of Wycombe, Parish of Great and Little Kimble cum Marsh, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Stoke Mandeville—Work No. 2/39 - A railway (1.47 kilometres in length) being a 40 realignment of the Princes Risborough to Aylesbury Line Railway, commencing on that railway at a point 260 metres north of Marsh Crossing and terminating on that railway at a point 110 metres south-east of the junction of Batt Furlong with Westfield.District of Aylesbury Vale, Parishes of Stoke Mandeville and Stone with 45 Bishopstone and Hartwell—Work No. 2/43 - An accommodation access road, being a diversion of footpaths SMA/16/1, SBH/28/2 and SMA/16/2, commencing at apoint 131 metres south of the junction of footpaths SBH/17/3 and SBH/28/2 with footpath SMA/16/1 and terminating on footpath 50 SMA/16/2 at a point 197 metres north-east of the junction of that￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works49￼footpath with footpaths SBH/16/1 and SBH/17A/1. Work No. 2/ 43 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/28.Parish of Stone with Bishopstone and Hartwell—Work No. 2/44 - A bridge over Work No. 2/28, being a diversion ofbridleway SBH/19/7, commencing on that bridleway at a point 356 5 metres south-west of the junction of that bridleway with bridleway SMA/22/1 and terminating on that bridleway at a point 50 metressouth of that junction;Work No. 2/45 - A footbridge commencing on footpath SBH/27/1 at apoint 694 metres south-west of the junction of Welland Close with 10 Nene Close and terminating on that footpath at a point 424 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/46 - A gas main diversion, commencing at a point 755metres south-west of the junction of Primrose Drive with Foxgloveand terminating at a point 440 metres south-west of that junction; 15Work No. 2/47 - An accommodation access road, commencing on footpath SBH/34/1 at a point 744 metres south-west of the junctionof Primrose Drive with Foxglove and terminating on that footpath ata point 404 metres west of that junction. Work No. 2/47 includes abridge over Work No. 2/28; 20Work No. 2/48 - A diversion of the A418 Oxford Road, commencing at a point 13 metres south-west of its junction with Meadoway and terminating on the roundabout at its junction with Coldharbour Way. Work No. 2/48 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/28.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parishes of Stone 25 with Bishopstone and Hartwell, Fleet Marston, Waddesdon, Quainton, Grendon Underwood, Calvert Green, Steeple Claydon, Twyford, Preston Bissett, Chetwode, Barton Hartshorn, Westbury and Turweston, County of Oxfordshire, District of Cherwell, Parishes of Godington, Newton Purcellwith Shelswell, Finmere and Mixbury, County of Northamptonshire, 30 District of South Northamptonshire, Parish of Whitfield—Work No. 2/49 - A railway (33.55 kilometres in length), partly in tunnels and partly on viaducts, commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/28 at its termination and terminating at a point 220metres north-west of the junction of The River Great Ouse with Well 35 Stream. Work No. 2/49 includes viaducts over the River Thame, Padbury Brook and the River Great Ouse and bridges over Fleet Marston Brook, the River Ray and Muxwell Brook.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury, Parish of Stone with Bishopstone and Hartwell— 40Work No. 2/50 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/49, being a diversionof footpath SBH/32/1, commencing on that footpath at a point 288metres east of the junction of that footpath with the road leaving toLower Hartwell Farm and terminating on that footpath 180 metres north-west of its junction with footpath AYL/39/1; 45Work No. 2/51 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49, being a diversion of bridleway SBH/2/4, commencing on that bridleway at a point 96metres south-west of its junction with footpath CDH/1/1 and bridleway CDH/3/1 and terminating on bridleway SBH/2/4 at apoint 177 metres east of its junction with bridleways SBH/3/1 and 50 SBH/2/3;
￼￼￼50High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 2/51A - An accommodation access road, being a realignment of a track, commencing at the junction of footpaths SBH/3/2 and SBH/31/1 and terminating on bridleway SBH/2/4 at the termination of Work No. 2/51;Work No. 2/52 - A diversion of an oil pipeline, commencing beneath a 5 point 118 metres north-east of the junction of bridleways SBH/2/3, SBH/2/4 and SBH/3/1 continuing north-eastwards beneath WorkNo. 2/49 and terminating beneath a point 318 metres north-east ofthat junction.Parish of Fleet Marston— 10 Work No. 2/53 - An accommodation bridge over Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point 372 metres south-west of the entrance to Putlowes Farm from Putlowes Drive and terminating at a point 174metres north-east of its commencement.Parishes of Waddesdon and Fleet Marston— 15Work No. 2/54 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point 308 metres north of the junction of footpath WAD/7A/5 with bridleways FMA/1/1 and WAD/8/3 and terminating at a point 274 metres north of that junction;Work No. 2/55 - A diversion of the A41 Bicester Road, commencing at 20 a point 412 metres east of the junction of that road with the accessroad in Willow Cottage and terminating at a point 556 metres northof the junction of that road with Blackgrove Road.Parish of Waddesdon—Work No. 2/56 - An accommodation access road, commencing on the 25 access road to Cranwell Farm at a point 98 metres south of its junction with the A41 Bicester Road and terminating on the A41 Bicester Road at a point 204 metres west of that junction;Work No. 2/57 - A diversion of the A41 Bicester Road, commencing ata point 772 metres west of the junction of that road with Blackgrove 30 Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/55 at its termination. Work No. 2/57 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49;Work No. 2/58 - A diversion of Blackgrove Road, commencing at apoint 960 metres north of the junction of that road with the A41 Bicester Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/55 at 35 its termination;Work No. 2/59 - An accommodation access road, including a bridgeover Work No. 2/49, being a diversion of footpaths WAD/4A/2 and WAD/4/2, commencing at a point 124 metres east of the junction ofthat access with footpath WAD/4A/1 and terminating on footpath 40 WAD/4/2 at a point 375 metres east of that junction;Work No. 2/60 - An accommodation underpass beneath Work No. 2/49, commencing on the access track in Waddesdon Sewerage Treatment Works at a point 350 metres east of the junction of thataccess track with Quainton Road and terminating at those Treatment 45 Works at a point 220 metres south-east of the junction of footpath WAD/4A/1 with footpaths WAD/3/4 and WAD/3/5;Work No. 2/60A - An accommodation access road, commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/60 at a point 200 metres south of the junction of footpath WAD/4A/1 with footpaths WAD/3/4 and 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works51￼WAD/3/5 and terminating at a point 494 metres north-west of thatjunction;Work No. 2/61 - A diversion of a gas main, beneath Work No. 2/49,commencing at a point 200 metres north-west of the junction of footpath WAD/3/5 with footpath WAD/4A/1 and terminating at a 5 point 296 metres north of the junction of footpath WAD/24/1 with Quainton Road.Parishes of Waddesdon and Quainton—Work No. 2/62 - A diversion of a gas main, beneath Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point 410 metres north-east of the bridge carrying 10 Quainton Road over the Fleet-Marston Brook and terminating at apoint 186 metres north-west of the junction of footpath QUA/29A/2with Station Road;Work No. 2/63 - A diversion of a gas main, commencing at a point 420metres north-east of the bridge carrying Quainton Road over Fleet 15 Marston Brook and terminating at a point 330 metres north-west ofthe junction of footpath QUA/29A/2 with Station Road.Parish of Quainton—Work No. 2/64 - An accommodation access road commencing onQuainton Road at a point 422 metres south-east of the junction of that 20 road with Station Road and terminating at a point 376 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Quainton Road over Fleet MarstonBrook. Work No. 2/64 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49;Work No. 2/66 - An access road commencing on Station Road at a point155 metres north-east of the junction of that road with Quainton 25 Road and terminating at a point 45 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 2/67 - A diversion of Station Road, commencing at a point416 metres south-west of its junction with Quainton Road and terminating on that road at a point 480 metres north-east of the 30 bridge carrying the Aylsbury Link over that road. Work No. 2/67 includes bridges over Work No. 2/49 and the Aylesbury Link;Work No. 2/67A - A spur road commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 2/67 at a point 260 metres north-west of the junction of QuaintonRoad with Station Road and terminating on Quainton Road at a 35 point 33 metres north-west of its junction with Station Road;Work No. 2/67B - A road, commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/67 at a point 416 metres north-west of the junction of Station Roadwith Quainton Road and terminating on the access road leading to Doddershall House at a point 20 metres east of the junction of 40 footpath QUA/31/3 with that access road;Work No. 2/68 - A diversion of Fidlers Lane, commencing by a junctionwith Work No. 2/67 at a point 160 metres east of the bridge carryingthat road over the Aylesbury Link and terminating on Fidlers Laneat a point 280 metres north of that bridge; 45Work No. 2/68A - An improvement of an access road commencing bya junction with Work No. 2/68 at a point 194 metres north of thebridge carrying Fidlers Lane over the Aylesbury Link and terminating on that track at a point 150 metres west of its commencement; 50Work No. 2/69 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49, Bridleway QUA/28A/ 1 and Bridleway QUA/28A/2 commencing at a point 230 metres
￼￼￼52High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled workssouth-west of the junction of those bridleways and terminating at thejunction of bridleway QUA/28A/2 with footpath QUA/24A/1; Work No. 2/70 - An underpass beneath Work No. 2/49 commencing at a point 648 metres north-west of the junction of bridleway QUA/28A/2 with footpath QUA/24A/1 and terminating at a point 58 5metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/71 - A diversion of Edgcott Road commencing on that roadat a point 260 metres east of the bridge carrying that road over the Aylesbury Link and terminating on that road at a point 140 metreswest of its junction with the access to Woodlands Farm. Work No. 10 2/71 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49;Work No. 2/71A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/71 on Edgcott Road at a point 230 metres east of thebridge carrying that road over the Aylesbury Link and terminatingat a point 30 metres north-east of that bridge; 15Work No. 2/72 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing on bridleway QUA/36/2 at a point 86 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that bridleway over the Aylesbury Link and terminating on bridleway QUA/36/3 at a point 80 metres north-east of that bridge.Parish of Grendon Underwood— 20 Work No. 2/73 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point40 metres south of the junction of that bridleway with bridleway GUN/25/2 and GUN/31/1 and terminating at a point 22 metresnorth of the junction of that bridleway with footpath GUN/29/1.Parish of Calvert Green— 25Work No. 2/74 - An underpass beneath Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point 186 metres west of the junction of bridleway GUN/25/1 with bridleway CAG/3/1 and terminating at a point 216 metres north-west of that junction.Parishes of Calvert Green and Steeple Claydon— 30 Work No. 2/75 - A footbridge over Works Nos. 2/49 and 2/77 commencing at a point 120 metres north-west of the junction of bridleway SCL/18/2 with footpath SCL/13/2 and terminating onthat footpath at a point 150 metres north of that junction;Work No. 2/76 - A bridge over Works Nos. 2/49, 2/77 and 2/78, 35 commencing at a point 525 metres south-east of the junction of Cotswolds Way with Brickhill Way and terminating at a point 345metres north-east of that junction.Parish of Calvert—Work No. 2/76A - An access road commencing at a point 545 metres 40south-east of the junction of Cotswolds Way with Brickhill Way and terminating at a point 360 metres east of that junction.Parishes of Grendon Underwood, Calvert Green and Steeple Claydon— Work No. 2/77 - A railway (4.42 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with the Aylesbury Link at a point 40 metres east of the 45 junction of bridleway GUN/25/1, with bridleway CAG/3/1 and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/81 at a point 18 metreswest of the bridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line Railway.￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works53￼Parish of Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/78 - A loop railway (0.82 kilometres in length)commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/77 at a point 520 metreseast of the junction of Cotswolds Way with Brickhill Way and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/77 at a point 236 metres 5 west of the junction of School Hill with footpath SCL/12/1;Work No. 2/79 - A railway (2.51 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with the Aylesbury Link and Work No. 2/49 at a point 275metres east of the junction of Cotswolds Way with Brickhill Way and terminating at a point 10 metres north of the bridge carrying 10 Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line;Work No. 2/80 - A realignment of School Hill commencing at a point 5metres north of the junction of that road with Brackley Lane and terminating on that road at a point 30 metres north-east of the junction of that road with footpath SCL/12/1. Work No. 2/80 15 includes bridges over Works Nos. 2/49, 2/77, 2/79 and 2/78;Work No. 2/80A - An accommodation access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/80 at the junction of School Hill with footpath SCL/12/1 and terminating at a point 490 metres west ofthat junction. 20Parishes of Twyford and Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/81 - A railway (3.73 kilometres in length) being arealignment of the Bicester to Bletchley Line commencing at a point20 metres west of the level crossing over Queen Catherine Road and terminating at a point 22 metres east of the bridge carrying Main 25 Street over that railway. Work No. 2/81 includes bridges overWorks Nos. 2/49 and 2/79;Work No. 2/82 - A railway (4.77 kilometres in length) commencing ata point 154 metres west of Queen Catherine Road level crossing overthe Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 160 metres 30 east of the bridge carrying the dismantled railway over PadburyBrook. Work No. 2/82 includes a depot.Parish of Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/82A - A railway (0.2 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with Work No. 2/82 at a point 195 metres west of the 35 bridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Lineand terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/83 at a point 395metres west of that bridge.Parishes of Steeple Claydon and Twyford—Work No. 2/83 - A railway (2.87 kilometres in length) commencing at a 40 point 290 metres west of the Queen Catherine Road level crossingover the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 460metres north of the bridge carrying Perry Hill over the Bicester to Bletchley Line. Work No. 2/83 includes a depot;Work No. 2/83A - A railway siding (0.52 kilometres in length) 45 commencing at a point 764 metres west of the bridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating ata point 225 metres north-east of the bridge carrying Perry Hill overthe Bicester to Bletchley Line. Work No. 2/83A includes a depot;Work No. 2/83B - A railway siding (1.08 kilometres in length) 50 commencing at a point 94 metres north-west of the bridge carrying
￼￼￼54High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksAddison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 475 metres north-east of the bridge carrying Perry Hill over the Bicester to Bletchley Line. Work No. 2/83B includes a depot;Work No. 2/83C - A temporary railway siding (1.87 kilometres in length) commencing at a point 40 metres north of the bridge carrying 5 Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating bya junction with Work No. 2/82 at a point 344 metres south of the junction of West Street with Perry Hill.Parish of Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/83D - A temporary railway siding (0.83 kilometres in 10length) commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/83C at a point112 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 762 metres north-east of the bridge carrying Perry Hill over the Bicester to Bletchley Line including depot buildings. 15Parishes of Steeple Claydon and Twyford—Work No. 2/84 - A gas main diversion commencing at a point 210metres north-east of the bridge carrying Main Street over the Bicesterto Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 414 metres south-east ofthe junction of Perry Hill with West Street. 20Parish of Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/86 - A gas main diversion commencing at a point 260metres north-west of the level crossing over Queen Catherine Roadand terminating at a point 425 metres south-east of the junction ofPerry Hill with West Street. 25Parishes of Steeple Claydon and Twyford—Work No. 2/87 - A diversion of Addison Road commencing at a point358 metres south of the bridge carrying that road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 138 metres south of Redland Bridge. Work No. 2/87 includes a bridge over Works Nos. 30 2/81, 2/82 and 2/83;Work No. 2/88 - An access road commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 2/87 at a point 224 metres south of Redland Bridge and terminating on Addison Road at a point 326 metres south of that Bridge. 35Parish of Steeple Claydon—Work No. 2/88A - An access road commencing at a point 480 metressouth west of the bridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 536 metres west of thatbridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line; 40Work No. 2/89 - A footbridge over Works Nos. 2/81, 2/82 and 2/83 commencing on footpath SCL/8/1 at a point 320 metres east of thebridge carrying Addison Road over the Bicester to Bletchley Lineand terminating on footpath SCL/8/2 at a point 60 metres south ofthe junction of that footpath with footpath SCL/8/3 and footpath 45 SCL/8/4.Parish of Twyford—Work No. 2/91 - A diversion of Perry Hill commencing at a point 430metres south east of the bridge carrying that road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at a point 20 metres south-east of the 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works55￼junction of that road with West Street. Work No. 2/91 includes abridge over Works Nos. 2/49, 2/81, 2/82 and 2/83C;Work No. 2/91A - An access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/91 at a point 139 metres south of the bridge carryingPerry Hill road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line and terminating at 5 a point 44 metres east of the bridge carrying Perry Hill road over the Bicester to Bletchley Line;Work No. 2/91B - A road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/91 at a point 190 metres south of the junction of Perry Hill and WestStreet and terminating on Perry Hill at a point 228 metres south of 10 the junction of Perry Hill and West Street;Work No. 2/92 - A realignment of West Street, commencing at a point220 metres north of the junction of that road with Portway Road and terminating on West Street at a point 85 metres west of the junctionof that road with Perry Hill Road; 15Work No. 2/93 - An access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/92 at a point 220 metres south-west of the junction of West Street with Perry Hill and terminating at a point 530 metres west of that junction;Work No. 2/94 - An access road commencing on West Street at a point 20 80 metres north of the junction of that road with Portway Road and terminating at the sewage works at a point 196 metres south-east ofthe junction of footpath TWY/18/2 with the dismantled railway.Parish of Preston Bissett—Work No. 2/95 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49, commencing at a point 25176 metres south-east of the junction of footpath PBI/5(F)/7 with the dismantled railway and terminating on that footpath at a point 120 metres north of that junction;Work No. 2/96 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49, commencing on bridleway PBI/5A/3 at a point 206 metres west of the junction of 30 PBI/5(F)/7 with the dismantled railway and terminating at a point304 metres north-west of that junction.County of Oxfordshire, District of Cherwell, Parish of Godington, County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Chetwode—Work No. 2/97 - A diversion of Padbury Brook commencing at a point 35 38 metres east of the junction of bridleway CHW/24/2 with bridleway 225/4 and terminating at that junction.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Chetwode—Work No. 2/98 - A diversion of The Green commencing on The Green 40 at a point 67 metres west of the junction of the access to Rosehill Farmand terminating on The Green at a point 28 metres north of the junction of the access to Sunflower Farm;Work No. 2/99 - A bridge over Work No 2/49, commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/98 at a point 63 metres south of the 45 junction of the access to Sunflower Farm and terminating on TheGreen at a point 6 metres north-west of the junction of footpath CHW/20/1 with The Green.Parishes of Chetwode and Barton Hartshorn—Work No. 2/100 - A realignment of School End commencing at a point 50 30 metres north-east of the junction of that road with the dismantled
￼￼￼56High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksrailway and terminating on that road at a point 162 metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 2/100 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Barton Hartshorn, County of Oxfordshire, District of Cherwell, Parish of Newton 5 Purcell with Shelswell—Work No. 2/101- A footbridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing at apoint 200 metres north-west of the junction of footpaths BHA/2/1and BHA/3/1 with footpath BHA/2/2 and terminating at a point208 metres north of that junction. 10County of Oxfordshire, District of Cherwell, Parish of Newton Purcell with Shelswell—Work No. 2/102 - A diversion of the A4421 Buckingham Road commencing at a point 4 metres west of its junction with the entranceto Old Rectory Farm and terminating at a point 308 metres north-east 15 of its junction with Manor Farm Road. Work No. 2/102 includes abridge over Work No. 2/49.Parish of Finmere—Work No. 2/103 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing onbridleway 213/7 at a point 732 metres north-west of the junction of 20 the A4421 Buckingham Road with the dismantled railway and terminating on that bridleway at a point 114 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/104 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing at a point166 metres west of the junction of bridleway 213/4 with the 25 dismantled railway and terminating at a point 154 metres north ofthat junction.Parishes of Finmere and Mixbury—Work No. 2/105 - A realignment of the A421 London Roadcommencing at a point 40 metres west of its junction with bridleway 30 303/8 and terminating 360 metres east of the junction of that roadwith the dismantled railway. Work No. 2/105 includes a bridge overWork No. 2/49.Parish of Finmere—Work No. 2/105A - An access road commencing by a junction with 35 Work No. 2/105 at a point 120 metres north-west of the junction ofthe A421 London Road with the dismantled railway and terminatingon the access to Widmore Farm at a point 266 metres south of that junction;Work No. 2/105B - An access road commencing by a junction with 40 Work No. 2/105 at a point 118 metres east of the junction of the A421 London Road with the dismantled railway and terminating on theaccess to Warren Farm at a point 260 metres north-east of that junction.Parishes of Finmere and Mixbury— 45Work No. 2/105C - A temporary diversion of the A421 London Road over Work No. 2/49 commencing at a point 20 metres south-east of the junction of that road with bridleway 303/8 and terminating by a junction with the termination of Work No. 2/105.￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works57￼Parish of Mixbury—Work No. 2/106 - A realignment of Featherbed Lane commencing at apoint 36 metres north-east of the junction of that road with ChurchLane and terminating at a point 132 metres north-east of that junction. Work No. 2/106 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49; 5Work No. 2/106A - An access road commencing at a point 150 metres east of the junction of Featherbed Lane with Church Lane and terminating at a point 176 metres north-east of that junction;Work No. 2/107 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing at a point50 metres west of the junction of bridleway 303/4/30 and bridleway 10 303/22/20 with bridleway 303/4/20 and terminating on bridleway 303/4/20 at a point 96 metres north east of that junction.County of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Westbury—Work No. 2/108 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing at a 15 point 74 metres east of the junction of footpath WBB/17/1 with footpath TUW/11/2 and terminating at a point 180 metres east ofthat junction.Parishes of Westbury and Turweston—Work No. 2/109 - A diversion of the A422 Brackley Road commencing 20at a point 184 metres west of the junction of that road with the access to Grovehill Farm and terminating at a point 278 metres south-east of the junction of that road with the access to Oatleys Farm.Parish of Turweston—Work No. 2/109A - An access road commencing by a junction with 25Work No. 2/109 at a point 106 metres south-east of the junction of the A422 Brackley Road with the access to Oatleys Farm and terminating on that access road at a point 78 metres north of that junction.Parishes of Westbury and Turweston—Work No. 2/109B - A temporary diversion of the A422 Brackley Road 30 commencing at a point 230 metres west of the junction of that roadwith the access to Grovehill Farm and terminating at a point 350metres south-east of the junction of that road with the access to Oatleys Farm.Parish of Turweston— 35 Work No. 2/110 - A bridge over Work No. 2/49 commencing on bridleway TUW/4/1 at a point 62 metres west of the junction of that bridleway with bridleways TUW/4/2 and TUW/9/2 and terminating on bridleway TUW/4/3 at a point 80 metres north-eastof the junction of that bridleway with bridleway TUW/4/2 and 40 footpath TUW/5/1;Work No. 2/110A - A temporary access road being a diversion of theaccess road to Oatleys Hall commencing on bridleway TUW/4/1 ata point 150 metres west of the junction of that bridleway with bridleways TUW/4/2 and TUW/9/2 and terminating on bridleway 45 TUW/4/3 at a point 220 metres north-east of the junction of that bridleway with bridleway TUW/4/2 and footpath TUW/5/1. WorkNo. 2/110A includes a bridge over Work No. 2/49;Work No. 2/110B - A watercourse being a diversion of Mill Stream commencing in Mill Stream at a point 10 metres south of the junction 50
￼￼￼58High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksof the River Great Ouse with Mill Stream and terminating in Mill Stream at a point 148 metres south of its commencement.County of Northamptonshire, District of South Northamptonshire, Parishesof Whitfield, Radstone, Greatworth, Marston St Lawrence, Culworth, Thorpe Mandeville, Chipping Warden and Edgcote, Aston Le Walls and 5 Boddington—Work No. 2/111 - A railway (20.5 kilometres in length), commencing bya junction with the termination with Work No. 2/49 at a point 1.03 kilometres north-west of the junction of bridleway TUW/9/2 and bridleway TUW/4/1 with bridleway TUW/4/2 and terminating at 10 a point 12 metres south-west of the junction of Banbury Road and Boddington Road. Work No. 2/111 includes viaducts over BanburyLane, River Cherwell, Waddington Road and Highfurlong Brook.Parishes of Brackley, Whitfield and Radstone—Work No. 2/112 - A realignment of the A43 Oxford Road commencing 15on the roundabout by a junction with Northampton Road and terminating at a point 50 metres west of the junction with The Avenue. Work No. 2/112 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/111.Parish of Radstone—Work No. 2/113 - An underpass beneath Work No. 2/112 commencing 20at a point 144 metres north of the A43 Oxford Road roundabout and terminating at a point 105 metres south-west of the junction of bridleway BD10 with the A43 Oxford Road.Parishes of Radstone and Whitfield—Work No. 2/114 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing at a 25 point 80 metres north of the junction of bridleway AX14 with bridleway AX16 and terminating on bridleway AX16 at a point 219metres north-east of that junction.Parish of Radstone—Work No. 2/115 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on 30footpath AX15 at a point 339 metres south-east of the junction of footpath AX7 with Radstone Road and terminating on footpath AX15 at a point 280 metres east of that junction;Work No. 2/116 - A diversion of Radstone Road commencing at a point102 metres south of the junction of that road with footpath AX7 and 35 terminating at a point 12 metres south of the junction of RadstoneRoad with Whitfield Road. Work No. 2/116 includes a bridge overWork No. 2/111;Work No. 2/116A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/116 at a point 119 metres south of the junction of 40 Radstone Road with Whitfield Road and terminating on the accessroad to Manor Farm at a point 16 metres north-east of the junction ofthat access road with Radstone Road;Work No. 2/117 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on footpath AX5 at a point 370 metres west of the junction of Radstone 45 Road with Whitfield Road and terminating on bridleway AX15 at apoint 68 metres west of that junction.Parish of Greatworth—Work No. 2/118 - A footbridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on footpath AN22 at a point 10 metres south-west of the junction of that 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works59￼footpath with bridleway AN37 and terminating on that footpath at a point 134 metres south-west of the junction of that footpath with footpath AN20;Work No. 2/119 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on footpath AN19 at a point 190 metres south-west of the junction of 5 that footpath with bridleway AN37 and terminating at a point 50 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 2/120 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on bridleway AN14 at a point 84 metres north-east of its junction with bridleway AN28 and terminating on bridleway AN14 at a point 335 10 metres south-west of the junction of that bridleway with the B4525Welsh Road;Work No. 2/121 - A realignment of Helmdon Road commencing at apoint 184 metres west of the junction of that road with the B4525Welsh Road and terminating at a point 28 metres north-east of the 15 junction of footpath AN4 with Helmdon Road;Work No. 2/122 - A realignment of the B4525 Welsh Road commencingat a point 90 metres north-west of the junction of that road with footpath AN4 and terminating at a point 550 metres north-west ofthat junction. 20Parishes of Greatworth and Marston St. Lawrence—Work No. 2/122A - A temporary diversion of the B4525 Welsh Roadcommencing on that road at a point 90 metres north-west of the junction of that road with footpath AN4 and terminating at a point220 metres south-west of the junction of footpath AN39 with that 25 road.Parishes of Marston St Lawrence, Sulgrave and Thorpe Mandeville—Work No. 2/122B - A temporary diversion of Sulgrave Road commencing at a point 260 metres north of the junction of that roadwith the B4525 Welsh Road and terminating at a point 90 metres 30 north of the junction of that road with footpath AY12;Work No. 2/122C - A reconstruction of Sulgrave Road commencing at a point 430 metres north of the junction of that road with the B4525 Welsh Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/122B.Parishes of Marston St Lawrence and Thorpe Mandeville— 35Work No. 2/123 - A diversion of Banbury Road commencing at a point 273 metres west of the junction of that road with footpath BB3 and terminating at a point 184 metres east of that junction. Work No. 2/ 123 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/111;Work No. 2/123A - A temporary diversion of Banbury Road 40 commencing at a point 400 metres west of the junction of that roadwith footpath BB3 and terminating at a point 360 metres east of that junction.Parish of Culworth—Work No. 2/124 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing at a 45 point 540 metres south-east of the junction of bridleway AG10 with bridleway AN9 and terminating at a point 560 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 2/125 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing on bridleway AG9 at a point 6 metres east of the junction of that 50
￼￼￼60High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksbridleway with bridleway AG10 and AN9 and terminating onbridleway AG9 at a point 350 metres east of that junction;Work No. 2/126 - A bridge over Work No. 2/111 commencing at a point 720 metres north-west of the junction of bridleway AG10 withbridleway AN9 and terminating at a point 890 metres north of that 5junction;Work No. 2/126A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/126 at a point 880 metres north-west of the junction of bridlewayAG10 with bridleway AG9 and terminating on bridleway AG10 at apoint 140 metres north-west of its commencement. 10Parish of Chipping Warden and Edgcote—Work No. 2/126B - A diversion of the River Cherwell commencing at apoint 80 metres west of the junction of Wardington Road with Welsh Road and terminating 60 metres west of its commencement;Work No. 2/126C - A diversion of the River Cherwell commencing at a 15 point 272 metres north-west of the junction of Wardington Road withWelsh Road and terminating at a point 90 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 2/127 - An access road commencing on the access road to Blackgrounds at a point 220 metres south of the junction of Culworth 20 Road with that access road and terminating in Culworth Road at apoint 60 metres west of the junction of that road with footpath AE28;Work No. 2/128 - A road commencing on footpath AE20 at a point 12metres west of the junction of that footpath with footpath AE21 and terminating on footpath AE21 at a point 134 metres north-east of that 25 junction;Work No. 2/128A - A temporary diversion of the A361 Byfield Road commencing at a point 40 metres north of the junction of that roadwith footpath AE20 and terminating at a point 256 metres north ofthe junction of that road with footpath AE16; 30Work No. 2/128B - A realignment of the A361 Byfield Road commencing at a point 235 metres north of the junction of that road with Footpath AE20 and terminating at a point 484 metres north of that junction.Parish of Aston Le Walls— 35Work No. 2/128C - A realignment of Appletree Lane commencing on that road at a point 140 metres north-east of the junction of that road with the access road to Field Farm and terminating at a point 360 metres north-east of that junction.Parish of Boddington— 40 Work No. 2/129 - A realignment of Claydon Road commencing on thatroad at a point 280 metres south-west of the junction of that roadwith footpath AC1 and terminating on that road at a point 250 metres south-west of the junction of that road with Banbury Road. WorkNo. 2/129 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/111; 45Work No. 2/130 - An access road commencing on the access to CedarsFarm at a point 445 metres south-west of the junction of that accesswith Banbury Road and terminating on Claydon Road at a point 620metres south-west of the junction of Banbury Road with ClaydonRoad; 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works61￼Work No. 2/131 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 550 metres south of the junction of Claydon Road with Banbury Road and terminating 144 metres east of its commencement.County of Northamptonshire, District of South Northamptonshire, Parish of Boddington, County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parish 5 of Wormleighton—Work No. 2/132 - A diversion of Banbury Road, Boddington Road and Wormleighton Road commencing at a point 24 metres south-east ofthe junction of Banbury Road with Claydon Road and terminatingon Wormleighton Road at a point 470 metres west of the junction of 10 Boddington Road with Stoneton Lane. Work No. 2/132 includes abridge over Work No. 2/111.County of Northamptonshire, District of South Northamptonshire, Parish of Boddington—Work No. 2/132A - A diversion of Claydon Road commencing at a 15 point 450 metres south-west of the junction of that road with Banbury Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 2/132at a point 192 metres south-west of the junction of Banbury Roadwith Warwick Road.County of Northamptonshire, District of South Northamptonshire, Parish of 20 Boddington, County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parishof Stoneton—Work No. 2/132B - A diversion of Stoneton Lane commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/132 at a point 120 metres south-east of the junction of Warwick Road with Banbury Road and terminating on 25 Stoneton Lane at a point 490 metres north-east of the junction of Stoneton Lane with Boddington Road.County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parishes of Stoneton, Wormleighton, Radbourne, Ladbroke, Southam and Long Itchington, County of Northamptonshire, District of South 30 Northamptonshire, Parish of Boddington, County of Warwickshire, Districtof Stratford-on-Avon, Parish of Stoneton—Work No. 2/133 - A railway (10.35 kilometres in length) commencingby a junction with the termination of Work No. 2/111 passing north- westwards and terminating at a point 266 metres south-east of the 35 junction of the A425 Southam Road with the entrance to Lower Farm.Work No. 2/133 includes viaducts over the Oxford Canal, the RiverItchen and Work No. 2/135.County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parish of Stoneton— 40Work No. 2/134 - A footbridge carrying Footpath SM101 over Work No. 2/133 commencing at a point 885 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Footpath SM116a over the Oxford Canal and terminating at a point 110 metres north-east of its commencement.Parish of Wormleighton— 45 Work No. 2/134A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at apoint 340 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Footpath SM116aover the Oxford Canal and terminating 55 metres north-east of itscommencement;
￼￼￼62High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 2/135 - An access road commencing at a point 1,028 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Footpath SM116a over the Oxford Canal and terminating at a point 620 metres north-west of that bridge;Work No. 2 /136 - A temporary bridge over the Oxford Canal 5 commencing at a point 12 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Bridleway SM116 over that canal and terminating at a point 38 metres north of its commencement.Parishes of Radbourn and Wormleighton—Work No. 2/137 - An improvement and realignment of Wills Pastures 10Road commencing at a point 75 metres south of its junction with the A423 Banbury Road and terminating at a point 180 metres west of its junction with Bridleway SM116.Parish of Wormleighton—Work No. 2/137A - A temporary road commencing by a junction with 15 Work No. 2/137 at a point 78 metres south-east of the junction ofWills Pastures Road with the A423 Banbury Road and terminating ata point 72 metres south-west of the access road to Lower New HouseFarm.Parishes of Radbourn and Napton-On-The-Hill— 20 Work No. 2/138 - An improvement and realignment of the access road between Welsh Road and Lower Radbourn Farm commencing at apoint 430 metres west of Chapel Bank Cottage and terminating by its junction with Welsh Road at a point 1,090 metres north-east of theaccess to Courtyard House. Work No. 2/138 includes a bridge over 25 Work No. 2/133.Parish of Radbourn—Work No. 2/138A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/138 at a point 390 metres north-west of Chapel Bank Cottage and terminating at a point 60 metres south-east of its 30 commencement.Parishes of Radbourn, Hodnell with Wells Pastures and Ladbroke—Work No. 2/139 - A road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/138 at a point 410 metres west of Chapel Bank Cottage and terminating by a junction with Radbourn Lane at a point 540 metres 35 south-west of the access to Ladbroke Grove Farm.Parishes of Radbourn and Ladbroke—Work No. 2/139A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/139 at a point 590 metres south of the access to LadbrokeGrove Farm and terminating at a point 10 metres south-east of that 40 access. Work No. 2/139A includes a bridge over Work No. 2/133.Parish of Ladbroke—Work No. 2/140 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point1,185 metres south-east of the junction of Windmill Lane with theA423 Ladbroke bypass and terminating at a point 220 metres north 45 of its commencement;Work No. 2/141 - A diversion of Windmill Lane commencing at a point 1,120 metres north-east of its junction with the A423 Ladbroke bypass and terminating at a point 560 metres north-west of its￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works63￼commencement. Work No. 2/141 includes a bridge over Work No.2/133;Work No. 2/141A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/141 at a point 860 metres north-east of the junction of WindmillLane with the A423 Ladbroke bypass and terminating at a point 360 5 metres north of its commencement.Parishes of Ladbroke and Southam—Work No. 2/142 - A diversion of the A423 Banbury Road commencingat a point 130 metres north-west of its junction with Southam Roadand terminating at a point 88 metres south of the entrance to 10 Warwick House Industrial Park. Work No. 2/142 includes a bridgeover Work No. 2/133.Parish of Ladbroke—Work No. 2/142A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/142 at a point 390 metres north-west of the junction of the A423 15 Banbury Road with Southam Road and terminating at a point 75metres north-east of its commencement.Parishes of Ladbroke and Southam—Work No. 2/142B - An access road to Starbold Farm commencing by ajunction with Work No. 2/142 at a point 550 metres north-west of the 20 junction of the A423 Banbury Road with Southam Road and terminating at a point 180 metres north-west of its commencement.Parish of Southam—Work No. 2/142C - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/142 at a point 240 metres south of the junction of the A423 Banbury 25 Road with the access to Warwick Park Industrial Estate and terminating at a point 710 metres south-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/143 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point320 metres south-west of the junction of the A423 Banbury Road withthe access to Warwick Park Industrial Estate and terminating at a 30 point 240 metres south-west of its commencement;Work No. 2/144 - A diversion of Kineton Road commencing at a point190 metres north of its junction with the access to Fields Farm and terminating at a point 20 metres south-west of its junction with Westfield Road. Work No. 2/144 includes a bridge over Work No. 35 2/133;Work No. 2/144A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/144 at a point 370 metres north of the junction of Kineton Road with the access to Fields Farm and terminating at apoint 40 metres north-west of its commencement; 40Work No. 2/145 - An access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/144 at a point 185 metres south-west of the junction of Kineton Road with Westfield Road and terminating at a point 40 metres north-west of its commencement.County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parishes of Long 45 Itchington and Ufton, District of Warwick, Parishes of Offchurch, Cubbington, Weston under Wetherly, Stoneleigh, Kenilworth and BurtonGreen, Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Berkswell —Work No. 2/146 - A railway (21.57 kilometres in length) partly intunnel and partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with the 50
￼￼￼64High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled workstermination of Work No. 2/133 and passing north-westwards and terminating at a point 270 metres north-west of the bridge carryingWaste Lane over Kenilworth Greenway. Work No. 2/146 includes viaducts over the River Leam, Finham Brook and Work No. 2/175and bridges over the Grand Union Canal, Work No. 2/151 and the 5 River Avon.County of Warwickshire, District of Stratford-on-Avon, Parish of Long Itchington—Work No. 2/147 - A realignment of the A425 Leamington Road commencing at a point 360 metres east of its junction with the access 10 to Lower Farm and terminating at a point 372 metres west of its commencement. Work No. 2/147 includes a bridge over Work No.2/146;Work No. 2/147A - A temporary road commencing at a point 360metres east of its junction with the access to Lower Farm and 15 terminating at a point 770 metres west of its commencement.District of Warwick, Parish of Offchurch—Work No. 2/148 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point320 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Welsh Road over theGrand Union Canal and terminating at a point 100 metres south-east 20 of the bridge carrying Ridgeway Lane over the Grand Union Canal;Work No. 2/149 - A diversion of Ridgeway Lane commencing at apoint 10 metres north of the bridge carrying Ridgeway Lane over theGrand Union Canal and terminating at a point 120 metres north of its commencement; 25Work No. 2/150 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 190 metres west of the bridge carrying Ridgeway Lane over the Grand Union Canal and terminating at a point 320 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/151 - A diversion of Welsh Road commencing at a point 55 30 metres west of its junction with Ridgeway Lane and terminating at apoint 700 metres west of its commencement;Work No. 2/151A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/151 at a point 240 metres south-west of the junction of RidgewayLane with Welsh Road and terminating at a point 50 metres north- 35 west of its commencement;Work No. 2/152 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point530 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Ridgeway Lane overthe Grand Union Canal and terminating at a point 295 metres north-east of its commencement; 40Work No. 2/153 - A diversion of Fosse Way commencing at a point 560 metres south-west of its junction with Welsh Road and terminating at a point 400 metres north of its junction with Long Itchington Road. Work No. 2/153 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/153A - A realignment of Welsh Road commencing at a 45 point 210 metres south-east of its junction with Fosse Way and terminating at a point in Radford Road 65 metres west of its junctionwith Long Itchington Road;Work No. 2/153B - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/153A at a point 65 metres south-east of the junction of 50 Welsh Road with Fosse Way and terminating at a point 35 metres north-east of its commencement;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works65￼Work No. 2/153C - A realignment of Long Itchington Road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/153 at a point 80 metres north of its junction with Fosse Way and terminating at a point 280 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 2/153D - An access road commencing by a junction with 5 Work No. 2/153 at a point 92 metres north-west of the junction ofWelsh Road with Fosse Way and terminating at a point 60 metres south-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/153E - A diversion of Long Itchington Road commencingby a junction with Work No. 2/153A at a point 80 metres east of its 10 junction with Welsh Road and terminating at a point 70 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/153F - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/153E at a point 100 metres east of the junction of Radford Road with Welsh Road and terminating at a point 20 metres 15 north of its commencement;Work No. 2/154 - A footbridge to carry Footpath W192 over Work No.2/146 commencing at a point 225 metres north-east of the junction ofWelsh Road with Long Itchington Road and terminating at a point320 metres north-east of its commencement; 20Work No. 2/154A - A cycle track commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/153C at a point 35 metres north of the junction of Long Itchington Road with Fosse Way and terminating at a point 380 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 2/155 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 25 445 metres north of the junction of Welsh Road with Long ItchingtonRoad and terminating beneath a point 860 metres north of that junction;Work No. 2/156 - A diversion of Hunningham Road commencing at apoint 120 metres north-east of its junction with the access road to 30 Manor Farm and terminating at a point 600 metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 2/156 includes a bridge over Work No.2/146;Work No. 2/157 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point540 metres north-east of the junction of the access road to Manor 35 Farm with Hunningham Road and terminating at a point 90 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/158 - Improvement of the access road to Fields Farm andFields Farm Cottages commencing by its junction with HunninghamRoad and terminating at a point 880 metres north-west of its 40 commencement;Work No. 2/159 - A footbridge to carry Footpath W129y over Work No.2/146 commencing at a point 715 metres north of the junction of theaccess road to Manor Farm with Hunningham Road and terminatingat a point 80 metres north-east of its commencement. 45Parishes of Cubbington and Weston under Wetherley—Work No. 2/160 - An access road commencing at a point 970 metresnorth-west of the junction of Footpath W129d, W129x and W129t and terminating at a point 250 metres north-east of its commencement.Work No. 2/160 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146; 50
￼￼￼66High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 2/160A - An access road commencing at a point 640 metres north-west of the junction of Footpath W129d, W129x and W129t and terminating at a point 320 metres north-west of its commencement.Parish of Cubbington—Work No. 2/160B - An improvement of Mill Street and the access road 5to Lower Grange commencing at a point 675 metres south-east of the junction of that access with Mill Street and terminating at a point 225m north-west of that junction;Work No. 2/161 - A footbridge to carry Footpath W130 over Work No.2/146 commencing at a point 1,220 metres north-west of the junction 10 of Footpaths W129d, W129x and W129t and terminating at a point 15metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/162 - A diversion of Rugby Road commencing at a point564 metres south-east of the junction of the access to Oakdene with Coventry Road and terminating at a point 25 metres north-east of its 15 junction with the access to Wychwood. Work No. 2/162 includes abridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/162A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/162 at a point 135 metres south-west of the junction ofthe access to Wychwood with Rugby Road and terminating at a point 20 45 metres south-east of its commencement.Parishes of Cubbington and Stoneleigh—Work No. 2/163 - A diversion of Coventry Road commencing at a point105 metres north of its junction with the access track to Oakdene and terminating at a point 855 metres north-east of its commencement. 25 Work No. 2/163 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/163A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/163 at a point 845 metres north-east of the junction of theaccess track to Oakdene with Coventry Road, and terminating 40metres north-west of its commencement; 30Work No. 2/164 - A realignment of the A445 Leicester Lane commencing at a point 390 metres south-west of the junction of theaccess track to Stonehouse Farm with Leicester Lane and terminatingat a point 720 metres north-east of that junction. Work No. 2/164 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146. 35Parish of Stoneleigh—Work No. 2/164A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/164 at a point 200 metres north-east of its junction withBridle Road and terminating at a point 20 metres south-west of that junction. 40Parishes of Stoneleigh and Cubbington—Work No. 2/164B - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/164 at a point 235 metres north-west of the junction ofthe access track to Stonehouse Farm with Leicester Lane and terminating at a point 220 metres south-west of its commencement; 45Work No. 2/165 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 245 metres north-east of the junction of Bridle Road with Leicester Lane and terminating beneath a point 350 metres south-west of the junction of the access track to Stonehouse Farm with Leicester Lane.Parish of Stoneleigh— 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works67￼Work No. 2/166 - A diversion of Stoneleigh Road commencing at apoint 65 metres north-east of its junction with the access road to Rectory Cottages and terminating at a point 230 metres north-east ofthe junction of Stareton Lane with Stoneleigh Road. Work No. 2/166 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146; 5Work No. 2/166A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/166 at a point 110 metres south of the junction of Stareton Lane with Stoneleigh Road and terminating at a point 90 metres north- west of its commencement;Work No. 2/166B - An access road commencing by a junction with 10 Work No. 2/166 at a point 45 metres south-east of the junction of Stareton Lane with Stoneleigh Road and terminating at a point 100metres south-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/166C - A diversion of Stareton Lane commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/166 at a point 130 metres north-east of its 15 junction with Stoneleigh Road and terminating at a point 42 metres south-west of its junction with Bridle Road;Work No. 2/166D - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 2/166D at a point 158 metres north-east of the junction of Stareton Lane with Stoneleigh Road and terminating at a point 210 20 metres east of the junction of Bridle Road with Stareton Lane;Work No. 2/166E - An access road commencing at a point 140 metres north-west of the junction of Stoneleigh Road with Stareton Lane and terminating at the junction of 9th Street with Avenue A;Work No. 2/166F - An access road commencing by a junction with 25 Work No. 2/166E at a point 90 metres east of the junction of 9thStreet with Avenue A and terminating at a point 140 metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 2/166F includes a bridge overWork No. 2/146.Parishes of Stoneleigh and Ashow— 30Work No. 2/167 - A diversion of Ashow Road commencing at a point 1,010 metres north-east of its junction with Crew Lane and terminating at a point 90 metres south-west of that junction. Work No. 2/167 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146.Parish of Stoneleigh— 35 Work No. 2/167A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/167 at a point 775 metres north-east of the junction of Crew Lanewith Ashow Road and terminating at a point 108 metres south of itscommencement.Parishes of Stoneleigh and Kenilworth— 40 Work No. 2/168 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point215 metres north-west of the junction of Crew Lane with AshowRoad and terminating beneath a point 350 metres south of thejunction of the access to Kingswood Farm with Dalehouse Lane;Work No. 2/168A - A temporary diversion of the A46 Kenilworth 45Bypass commencing at a point 10 metres north-east of the bridge carrying that road over Crew Lane and terminating at a point 815 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/169 - A realignment of the A46 Kenilworth Bypass commencing at a point 10 metres north-east of the bridge carrying 50 that road over Crew Lane and terminating at a point 800 metres
￼￼￼68High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksnorth-east of its commencement. Work No. 2/169 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146.Parish of Kenilworth—Work No. 2/170 - A footbridge carrying Footpath K29 over Work No.2/146 commencing at a point 472 metres south-west of the junction 5 of the access road to Kingswood Farm with Dalehouse Lane and terminating at a point 108 metres north-east of its commencement.Parishes of Stoneleigh and Kenilworth—Work No. 2/171 - A diversion of Dalehouse Lane commencing at apoint 230 metres south-west of its junction with the access road to 10 Kingswood Farm and terminating at a point 530 metres south-westof its commencement. Work No. 2/171 includes a bridge over WorkNo. 2/146;Work No. 2/171A - A road commencing by a junction with Work No.2/171 at a point 640 metres south-west of the junction of the access 15 road to Kingswood Farm with Dalehouse Lane and terminating at apoint 180 metres north-east of its commencement.Parish of Stoneleigh—Work No. 2/172 - An access road commencing at a point 160 metreseast of the bridge carrying the Coventry to Leamington Spa Line over 20 the access road to Milburn Grange and terminating at a point 210metres north-east of that bridge. Work No. 2/172 includes a bridgeover Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/173 - A diversion of the A429 Kenilworth Road commencing at a point 270 metres north-east of the junction of 25 Arborfields Close with the A429 Coventry Road and terminating ata point 532 metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 2/173 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/174 - A realignment of the access road to Milburn Grange commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/173 at a point 40 metres 30 south-west of the junction of the existing access with KenilworthRoad and terminating at a point 230 metres south-east of that junction;Work No. 2/175 - A diversion of Canley Brook commencing at a point270 metres north-east of the junction of Arborfields Close with 35 Coventry Road and terminating at a point 195 metres south-east ofOak Tree Cottages;Work No. 2/175A - A diversion of Canley Brook commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/175 at a point 260 metres south of OakTree Cottages and terminating at a point 640 metres north-east of the 40 junction of Arborfields Close with Coventry Road;Work No. 2/176 - A bridge carrying Bridleway W164 over Work No. 2/146 commencing at a point 560 metres south-east of the junction ofBlind Lane with Crackley Lane and terminating at a point 200 metres north-east of its commencement; 45Work No. 2/177 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 405 metres north-east of the junction of Blind Lane with Crackley Lane and terminating at a point 60 metres south-west of its commencement.Parish of Burton Green— 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works69￼Work No. 2/178 - A diversion of Crackley Lane commencing at a point 7 metres south-east of its junction with Blind Lane and terminating at a point 460 metres north-west of its commencement. Work No. 2/ 178 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/178A - A diversion of Cryfield Grange Road commencing 5 by a junction with Work No. 2/178 at a point 96 metres north-west ofits junction with Crackley Lane and terminating at a point 110 metres south-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/179 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point305 metres south-east of the junction of Footpath W168 with 10 Footpath W168a and terminating at a point 110 metres north-east ofits commencement;Work No. 2/180 - A diversion of a fuel pipeline commencing beneath apoint 430 metres north-east of the junction of Footpath W169 withRed Lane and terminating at a point 150 metres north-east of that 15 junction;Work No. 2/181 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point150 metres north-east of the junction of Footpath W169 with RedLane and terminating at a point 155 metres north-east of its commencement. 20County of Warwickshire, District of Warwick, Parish of Burton Green, Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Berkswell—Work No. 2/182 - A diversion of Kenilworth Greenway commencing ata point 312 metres south-east of its junction with Footpath W169 and terminating at a point 230 metres south-east of the bridge carrying 25 Waste Lane over Kenilworth Greenway;Work No. 2/183B - A temporary cycle track commencing at a point 312metres south-east of the junction of Footpath W169 with Kenilworth Greenway and terminating at a point 280 metres south-west of thebridge carrying Waste Lane over Kenilworth Greenway. 30County of Warwickshire, District of Warwick, Parish of Burton Green— Work No. 2/183 - A diversion of Cromwell Lane commencing at a point 156 metres south of its junction with Hodgetts Lane and terminating at a point 170 metres north of its commencement. Work No. 2/183includes bridges over Works Nos. 2/146 and 2/182; 35 Work No. 2/183A - A temporary diversion of Cromwell Lane commencing at a point 124 metres south of its junction with Hodgetts Lane and terminating at a point 140 metres north of itscommencement.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Berkswell— 40 Work No. 2/184 - A footbridge carrying Footpath M186 as proposed tobe diverted over Work No. 2/146 commencing at a point 940 metres north-west of the junction of Hodgetts Lane with Cromwell Laneand terminating 40 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 2/185 - A realigned access road commencing at a point 850 45metres north-west of the junction of Hodgetts Lane with Cromwell Lane and terminating at a point 240 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Waste Lane over Kenilworth Greenway;Work No. 2/186 - A realignment of Waste Lane commencing at a point220 metres south-west of its junction with Hodgetts Lane and 50
￼￼￼70High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksterminating at a point 454 metres south-west of its commencement.Work No. 2/186 includes a bridge over Work No. 2/146;Work No. 2/187 - A diversion of a fuel pipeline commencing beneath a point 512 metres south-west of the junction of Waste Lane withHodgetts Lane and terminating at a point 148 metres north-west of 5 its commencement.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwick, Parishes of Great Packington, Little Packington and Coleshill—Work No. 3/1 - A railway (10.9 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/146 at its termination, passing north- 10 westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/25 at apoint 440 metres north of the junction of Solihull Parkway with Blackfirs Lane. Work No. 3/1 includes bridges over the Rugby to Birmingham Line, Works Nos. 3/10A and 3/18; viaducts over Truggist Lane, Work No. 3/3, Bayley’s Brook, the River Blythe and 15 the M42 Motorway; and a new station (Birmingham Interchange Station).Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Berkswell—Work No. 3/1A - A temporary cycle track commencing by a junctionwith Work No. 2/183B at its termination and terminating by a 20 junction with Footpath M191 at a point 470 metres south-east of thebridge carrying the Rugby to Birmingham Line over Truggist Lane;Work No. 3/1B - A diversion of a fuel pipeline commencing by a junction with Work No. 2/187 at its termination and terminating beneath a point 375 metres east of the bridge carrying the Rugby to 25 Birmingham Line over Truggist Lane;Work No. 3/2 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 780 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Footpath M191 over theRugby to Birmingham Railway and terminating 400 metres north-west of its commencement; 30Work No. 3/3 - A diversion of Bayley’s Brook commencing at a point 170 metres north of the bridge carrying the Rugby to Birmingham Railway over Truggist Lane and terminating at a point 110 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/4 - A diversion of a water main commencing beneath a 35 point 395 metres south of the junction of Park Lane with LavenderHall Lane and terminating beneath a point 446 metres north-east ofits commencement;Work No. 3/5 - A realignment of Lavender Hall Lane commencing at apoint 150 metres north of the junction of that road with Hallmeadow 40 Road and terminating at a point 550 metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 3/5 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/1 and 3/6;Work No. 3/5A - A realignment of Park Lane commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/5 at a point 190 metres south-west of the 45 junction of that road with Lavender Hall Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/5B at a point 20 metres south of the junction of Park Lane with Kenilworth Road;Work No. 3/5B - A reconstruction of the junction of Park Lane with Kenilworth Road commencing in Kenilworth Road at a point 40 50 metres north-west of the bridge carrying Kenilworth Road over the￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works71￼Rugby to Birmingham Railway and terminating at point 300 metresnorth-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/5C - A footbridge over Work No. 3/1 commencing at apoint 310 metres east of the junction of Park Lane with KenilworthRoad and terminating at a point 100 metres north-east of its 5 commencement;Work No. 3/6 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 130 metres north-east of the junction of Park Lane with Lavender Hall Lane and terminating at a point 60 metres north-east of that junction;Work No. 3/7 - A diversion of a high pressure gas main commencing 10 beneath a point 320 metres south-east of the access to New MercoteFarm and terminating beneath a point 325 metres east of the junctionof Bridleway M218 with Kenilworth Road;Work No. 3/7A - A footbridge over Work No. 3/1 commencing at apoint 750 metres east of the junction of Kenilworth Road with 15 Bradnock’s Marsh Lane and terminating at a point 72 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/8 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 400metres east of the access to New Mercote Farm and terminating at apoint 630 metres north of the junction of Bradnock’s Marsh Lane 20 with Kenilworth Road.Parishes of Berkswell, Hampton-in-Arden and Meriden—Work No. 3/9 - A realignment of the A452 Kenilworth Road commencing at a point 380 metres north of the junction ofBradnock’s Marsh Lane with Kenilworth Road, passing northwards 25 and terminating at a point 10 metres south of its junction with Cornets End Lane and Meriden Road. Work No. 3/9 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/1, 3/9B and 3/11.Parish of Berkswell—Work No. 3/9A - A realignment of an access road and bridleway M218 30commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/9 at a point 180 metres south-east of the junction of Marsh Lane with Kenilworth Road and terminating at a point 370 metres east of that junction. Work No. 3/ 9A includes a bridge over Work No. 3/1;Work No. 3/9B - A diversion of Bayley’s Brook commencing at a point 35 65 metres east of the junction of Marsh Lane with Kenilworth Roadand terminating at a point 70 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/9C - A road, forming an extension of Marsh Lane, commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/9 at a point 80 metreseast of the junction of Marsh Lane and Kenilworth Road (A452) and 40 terminating by a junction with Marsh Lane at a point 106 metres south-west of its commencement.Parish of Hampton-in-Arden—Work No. 3/10 - An access road commencing by a junction with MarshLane at a point 225 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Meriden 45 Road over the River Blythe and terminating by a junction with Meriden Road at a point 55 metres north-east of that bridge;Work No. 3/10A - A realignment of Meriden Road commencing at apoint 92 metres north-east of the bridge carrying that road over theRiver Blythe and terminating at a point 150 metres north-east of its 50 commencement.
￼￼￼72High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksParishes of Berkswell, Hampton-in-Arden and Meriden—Work No. 3/11 - A diversion of Horn Brook commencing at a point 550 metres south-west of the junction of Meriden Road with Cornets EndLane and terminating at a point 410 metres south of that junction.Parish of Berkswell— 5Work No. 3/11A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/11 at a point 560 metres south of the junction of Cornets End Lane with Meriden Road and terminating at a point 646 metres south-east of that junction.Parish of Hampton-in-Arden— 10Work No. 3/14 - A diversion of a water main commencing beneath a point 400 metres north-east of the junction of Diddington Lane with Meriden Road and terminating beneath a point 294 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/15 - A diversion of the access road to Pasture Farm 15 commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/15A at a point 220metres west of the junction of that access road with Diddington Laneand terminating by a junction with the access road to Pasture Farmat a point 160 metres south-west of its commencement. Work No. 3/15 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/1; 20 Work No. 3/15A - A diversion of the access road from Diddington Laneto Pasture Farm commencing in that road at a point 155 metres westof the junction of that access road with Diddington Lane and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/16B at a point 310 metresnorth-west of its commencement; 25Work No. 3/15B - An access road commencing at a point 265 metres south-west of the junction of Footpath M114 with the access road to Pasture Farm and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/15 at a point 185 metres north of its commencement.Parishes of Hampton-in-Arden and Bickenhill— 30 Work No. 3/16 - A realignment of the A45 Coventry Road commencingat a point 240 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Middle Bickenhall Lane over Eastway and terminating by a junction with theA452 Chester Road at a point 40 metres west of the centre of the A45Coventry Road/A452 Chester Road roundabout. Work No. 3/16 35 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/1;Work No. 3/16A - A realignment of the A45 Coventry Road westbound link and slip road commencing at a point 200 metres south-west of a bridge carrying Middle Bickenhall Lane over Eastway and terminating at a point 70 metres north-west of the centre of the A45 40 Coventry Road/A452 Chester Road roundabout. Work No. 3/16A includes a bridge over Work No. 3/1.Parish of Hampton-in-Arden—Work No. 3/16B - A realignment of the A45 Coventry Road serviceroad commencing at a point 190 metres south-west of the bridge 45 carrying Middle Bickenhall Lane over Eastway and terminating at apoint 310 metres west of the centre of the A45 Coventry Road/A452 Chester Road roundabout. Work No. 3/16B includes a bridge overWork No. 3/1.Parish of Bickenhill— 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works73￼Work No. 3/16C - A realignment of Eastway commencing at a point160 metres east of the bridge carrying Middle Bickenhall Lane over Eastway and terminating at a point 320 metres west of the centre ofthe A45 Coventry Road/A452 Chester Road roundabout. Work No.3/16C includes a bridge over Work No. 3/1. 5Parish of Hampton-in-Arden—Work No. 3/16D - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 3/16B at a point 130 metres south of the bridge carrying Middle Bickenhill Lane over Eastway and terminating at a point 310metres south-west of that bridge; 10Work No. 3/16E - A widening of the eastern side of the junction of the A45 Service Road and the M42 Motorway southbound slip road between points 228 metres north-east and 120 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 3/16F - A widening of the eastern side of the M42 Motorway 15 southbound slip road from the A45 Coventry Road between points90 metres and 200 metres south of its junction with Old Station Road;Work No. 3/16G - A widening of the M42 Motorway southbound sliproad between points 100 metres and 170 metres south of the bridge carrying Eastway over that Motorway; 20Work No. 3/16H - A widening of the junction of the A45 Coventry Road slip road with South Way between points 60 metres and 190 metres south-west of that junction.Parish of Bickenhill—Work No. 3/17 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 25 130 metres north-east of the junction of the A45 Coventry Road withthe Eastway Link Road and terminating by a junction with HollywellBrook at a point 260 metres south-west of the bridge carrying theA452 Chester Road over Hollywell Brook;Work No. 3/18 - A diversion of Hollywell Brook commencing at a point 30400 metres west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Road over Hollywell Brook and terminating at a point 700 metres west of that bridge.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parishes of Hampton-in-Arden and Bickenhill, County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, 35 Parishes of Great Packington and Little Packington—Work No. 3/19 - A realignment of the A452 Kenilworth Road commencing at a point 40 metres south-east of its junction with Diddington Lane and terminating in Chester Road at a point 150metres south-east of the bridge carrying Chester Road over 40 Packington Lane.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill—Work No. 3/19A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 3/19 at a point 335 metres south-east of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Road over Holywell Brook and 45 terminating at a point 425 metres south-east of that bridge.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Little Packington, Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill—Work No. 3/19B - A road commencing at a point 320 metres south-eastof the bridge carrying A452 Chester Road over Packington Lane and 50
￼￼￼74High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksterminating at a point 200 metres south of that bridge. Work No. 3/ 19B includes a bridge over Work No. 3/19B.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill—Work No. 3/19C - A road commencing in the A452 Chester Road at apoint 240 metres north-west of the bridge carrying that road over 5 Hollywell Brook and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/19Bat a point 200 metres south of the bridge carrying the A452 ChesterRoad over Packington Lane;Work No. 3/20 - An elevated People Mover commencing at a point 185metres north-west of the centre of the Airport Way and Hermes Road 10 roundabout at Birmingham International Airport passing eastwardsover Vanguard Road, Bickenhill Lane, Birmingham International Station, Pendigo Way, Eastway, the M42 Motorway and Middle Bickenhill Lane and terminating at a point 498 metres south of the junction of Middle Bickenhill Lane with the A452 Chester Road; 15Work No. 3/20A - An elevated People Mover commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/20 at a point 110 metres west of the crossing of Middle Bickenhill Lane over Hollywell Brook passing eastwards then south-eastwards and terminating at a point 137metres north-east of the junction of the Eastway Link Road with 20 Eastway. Work No. 3/20A includes a depot for the proposed People Mover;Work No. 3/21 - A realignment of Pendigo Way, commencing at apoint 40 metres south of its junction with Eastway and terminatingat a point 115 metres north of that junction; 25Work No. 3/21A - A realignment of Eastway, commencing at a point 70 metres east of its junction with Pendigo Way and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/21 at a point 62 metres north-west of its junction with Pendigo Way;Work No. 3/22 - A diversion of the A452 Chester Road commencing at 30 a point 155 metres north-west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Road over Packington Lane and terminating at a point 360metres south-west of the centre of the roundabout carrying the A446/A452 over the M42 motorway. Work No. 3/22 includes bridges over the M42 motorway and the A446 Stonebridge Road; 35Work No. 3/22A - A realignment of Northway commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 3/22B and 3/22C at a point 58 metres north-east of the centre of the B4438/Northway roundabout and terminating at a point 170 metres south of that roundabout;Work No. 3/22B - A realignment of the B4438 Road commencing by a 40 junction with Works Nos. 3/22A and 3/22C at a point 58 metres north-east of the centre of the B4438/Northway roundabout and terminating at a point 150 metres west of that roundabout;Work No. 3/22C - A realignment of the access road to the Holiday Inn Express (Birmingham NEC) hotel, commencing at a point 58 metres 45 north-east of the centre of the B4438/Northway roundabout and terminating at a point 95 metres west of that roundabout;Work No. 3/22D - A realignment of Solihull Parkway commencing bya junction with Work No. 3/22 at a point 100 metres west of thecentre of the A452/A446/B4438 roundabout over the M42 50 Motorway and terminating at a point 160 metres west of its commencement;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works75￼Work No. 3/22E - A diversion of the A452 Chester Road commencingat a point 20 metres north of the junction of Middle Bickenhill Lanewith the A452 Chester Road and terminating by a junction withWork No. 3/22 at a point 110 metres south-west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Road over the A446 Stonebridge Road. 5Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill, County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Little Packington— Work No. 3/22F - An access road commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 3/22 and 3/22G at a point 200 metres west of bridgecarrying the A452 Chester Road over the A446 Stonebridge Road and 10 terminating by a junction with the existing access to the Quartz Point Business Park at a point 75 metres east of the junction of that accesswith the A452 Chester Road.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill, County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parishes of Coleshill and 15 Little Packington—Work No. 3/22G - A diversion of the A452 Chester Road and the A446 commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 3/22 and 3/22F at apoint 200 metres west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Roadover the A446 Stonebridge Road and terminating at a point 400 20 metres north-east of the centre of the A452/A446/B4438 roundaboutover the M42 Motorway.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill, County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Little Packington—Work No. 3/23 - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 25 390 metres south-west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Roadover the A446 Stonebridge Road and terminating by a junction withthat watercourse at a point 310 metres north-west of the bridge carrying the A452 Chester Road over Packington Lane.County of Warwickshire, District of South Warwickshire, Parish of 30 Coleshill—Work No. 3/24 - A widening of the bridge carrying the northbound carriageway of the A446 Stonebridge Road over the M6 Motorway toM42 Motorway Link Road commencing at a point 110 metres southof the centre of the roundabout over the M6 Motorway and 35 terminating at a point 100 metres south-west of that roundabout;Work No. 3/24A - A widening of the south-western side of the junction of the A446 Stonebridge Road and the M6 Motorway between points 20 metres south-west and 120 metres south-east of that junction;Work No. 3/24B - A widening of the north-western side of the junction 40 of the A446 Stonebridge Road and the M6 Motorway between points90 metres north and 145 metres west of that junction.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parishes of Bickenhill and ChelmsleyWood, County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Coleshill— 45Work No. 3/25 - A railway (5.27 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 3/1 passing northwards and terminating at a point 195 metres west of the roundabout junction in Coleshill Industrial Estate. Work No. 3/25 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/26, 3/28 and 3/151 and 50 viaducts over the M6 Motorway, M6 Motorway Slip Road, M6-M42
￼￼￼76High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksLink Road, M42 Motorway, M6/M42 Motorway, Coleshill Brook, Works Nos. 3/26B, 3/26C, 3/26D, 3/27A, 3/29, 3/32 and 3/32B.Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parishes of Bickenhill and Chelmsley Wood—Work No. 3/26 - A realignment of Coleshill Heath Road commencing 5 at a point 20 metres north-east its junction with Yorkminster Driveand terminating at a point 145 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/26A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 3/26 at a point 145 metres north-east of the junction of 10 Yorkminster Drive with Coleshill Heath Road and terminating at apoint 80 metres south-east of its commencement.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Coleshill—Work No. 3/26B - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 15 180 metres north-east of the intersection of the M42/M6 eastboundlink and the M6 eastbound off slip road and terminating at a point125 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/26C - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point195 metres north of the intersection of the M42/M6 eastbound link 20 and the M6 eastbound off slip road and terminating at a point 232metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/26D - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point230 metres north of intersection of the M42/M6 eastbound link andthe M6 eastbound off slip road and terminating by a junction with 25 Work No. 3/26C at a point 45 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/27 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 200metres north-west of the intersection of the M42/M6 eastbound linkand the M6 eastbound off slip road and terminating beneath a point235 metres west of the junction of Footpath M72 with Footpath M76; 30Work No. 3/27A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 255 metres south-west of the junction of Footpath M72 with Footpath M76 and terminating at a point 350 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 3/28 - A diversion of Birmingham Road commencing at a 35 point 7 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that road over theRiver Cole and terminating at a point 13 metres south-west of its junction with Manor Drive;Work No. 3/28A - A diversion of Manor Road commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/28 at a point 40 metres north-east of the 40 bridge carrying Birmingham Road over the River Cole and terminating at a point 185 metres south-east of the junction of SouthDrive with Manor Drive. Work No. 3/28A includes a bridge overWork No. 3/29;Work No. 3/28B - A temporary diversion of Birmingham Road 45 commencing at a point 25 metres north-east of the bridge carryingthat road over the River Cole and terminating at a point 512 metres south-east of the bridge carrying Manor Drive over the River Cole;Work No. 3/29 - A diversion of the River Cole commencing at a point210 metres south-east of the junction of South Drive with Manor 50 Drive and terminating at a point 300 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Footpath M56 over the River Cole;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works77￼Work No. 3/30 - A temporary bridge over the M42 motorway commencing at a point 312 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Footpath M56 over the River Cole and terminating at a point 70 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/31 - A sewer diversion commencing beneath a point 260 5 metres west of the bridge carrying Footpath M56 over the River Coleand terminating beneath a point 360 metres south-east of the junctionof Gilson Drive with Gilson Road;Work No. 3/32 - A diversion of Gilson Road commencing at a point 285metres south-east of its junction with Gilson Drive and terminating 10 at a point 20 metres north-west of its junction with Footpath M63;Work No. 3/32A - A diversion of Gilson Drive commencing by a junction with Work 3/32 at a point 230 metres south of its junctionwith Gilson Road and terminating at a point 100 metres south of its commencement; 15Work No. 3/32B - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 165 metres south-east of the junction of Gilson Drive with Gilson Road and terminating at a point 25 metres south-east of that junction;Work No. 3/32C - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point285 metres south-east of the junction of Gilson Drive with Gilson 20 Road and terminating at a point 40 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/33 - A footbridge to carry Footpaths M60 and M62 overWork No. 3/25 commencing at a point 115 metres north of the junction of Gilson Drive with Gilson Road and terminating at a point 25 80 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/34 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point265 metres south-west of the junction of Footpath M62 with the A446 Lichfield Road and terminating at a point 495 metres north-west ofits commencement. 30Parishes of Coleshill, Water Orton and Curdworth—Work No. 3/35 - A spur railway (3.35 kilometres in length) partly onviaduct commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No.3/25 and the commencement of Work No. 3/36, passing northwardsand terminating at a point 240 metres north-west of the junction of 35 Marston Lane with the A4097 Kingsbury Road. Work No. 3/35 includes viaducts over the A446 Lichfield Road, Birmingham to Nuneaton Line, River Tame, Minworth Effluent Conduit, Birmingham and Derby Line, Work No. 3/39B and a bridge overWork No. 3/41. 40Parishes of Coleshill, Water Orton, Curdworth, Lea Marston, Kingsbury and Middleton—Work No. 3/36 - A railway (4.95 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with the termination of Work No. 3/25and the commencement of Work No. 3/35, passing northwards and 45 terminating at a point 600 metres north-west of the junction of Bridleway T18 with Bridleway T154. Work No. 3/36 includes viaducts over the A446 Lichfield Road, Birmingham to NuneatonLine, River Tame, Minworth Effluent Conduit, Birmingham andDerby Line, M42 Motorway, Birmingham and Fazeley Canal, Work 50 No. 3/39B and bridges over Works Nos. 3/41, 3/40 and Byway T179.Parish of Water Orton—
￼￼￼78High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 3/37 - A sewer diversion commencing beneath a point 90metres north-east of the junction of Watton Lane with the A446 Lichfield Road and terminating beneath a point 260 metres north ofthe junction of the access to Bromwich Court with the A446 LichfieldRoad. 5Parishes of Coleshill and Curdworth—Work No. 3/38 - A diversion of a gas main commencing beneath a point30 metres north-east of the junction of the access to Bromwich Courtwith the A446 Lichfield Road and terminating beneath a point 230metres south-east of the bridge carrying the Birmingham and Derby 10 Line above the Minworth Effluent Conduit.Parishes of Water Orton and Coleshill—Work No. 3/38A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point265 metres north of the junction of Watton Lane with the A446 Lichfield Road and terminating at a point 325 metres south of the 15 bridge carrying the Birmingham and Derby Line above the Minworth Effluent Conduit.Parish of Curdworth—Work No. 3/39B - A temporary railway (0.95 kilometres in length)commencing by a junction with the Birmingham and Derby Line at a 20 point 35 metres south-west of the bridge carrying the Birminghamand Derby Line over the Minworth Effluent Conduit passing north- eastwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/39C at apoint 310 metres south-west of the junction of the access to HamsHall electricity substation with Hams Lane. 25Parishes of Lea Marston, Curdworth and Kingsbury—Work No. 3/39C - A temporary railway (5.12 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the Birmingham and Derby Line at apoint 155 metres south-west of the bridge carrying that railway overthe River Tame passing south-westwards and then northwards and 30 terminating at a point 330 metres north-east of Marston Farm Hotel.Parishes of Curdworth and Lea Marston—Work No. 3/39D - A temporary railway (1.23 kilometres in length)commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/39C at a point 265metres south-west of the junction of Marston Lane with the A4097 35 Kingsbury Road passing north-eastwards and terminating at a point380 metres south-west of the junction of footpath M22 with SeeneysLane.Parish of Curdworth—Work No. 3/40 - A spur railway (1.90 kilometres in length) 40commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/36 at a point 370 metres north-west of the southernmost bridge carrying Faraday Avenueover the Birmingham and Derby Line passing northwards and terminating by a junction with the termination of Work No. 3/35 ata point 240 metres north-west of the junction of Marston Lane with 45 the A4097 Kingsbury Road. Work No. 3/40 includes a bridge over Faraday Avenue;Work No. 3/41 - A realignment of Faraday Avenue commencing at a point 25 metres south-east of the bridge carrying that road over the￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works79￼Birmingham and Derby Line and terminating at a point 15 metreseast of the centre of the Lichfield Road/Faraday Road roundabout; Work No. 3/41A - An access road commencing at a point 110 metres south-west of the junction of the access to Newlands Farm withFaraday Avenue and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/41 5 at a point 60 metres north-west of the centre of the bridge carrying Faraday Avenue over the Birmingham and Derby Line;Work No. 3/41B - A temporary diversion of Faraday Avenue commencing at a point 195 metres north-west of the centre of theA446 Lichfield Road/Faraday Road roundabout and terminating at 10 a point 60 metres north-west of the centre of the bridge carrying Faraday Avenue over the Birmingham and Derby Line;Work No. 3/41C - A realignment of Hams Lane commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/41D at a point 10 metres north-east of its junction with Faraday Avenue and terminating at a point 380 metres 15 south-west of its junction with the access road to Hams Hall electricity substation. Work No. 3/41C includes a bridge over WorkNo. 3/39C;Work No. 3/41D - A temporary diversion of Hams Lane commencingby its junction with Faraday Avenue and terminating at a point 375 20 metres south-west of its junction with the access road to Hams Hall electricity substation.Parishes of Curdworth and Lea Marston—Work No. 3/43 - An access road commencing at a point 80 metresnorth-east of the centre of the bridge carrying the A446 Lichfield 25 Road over the Minworth Effluent Conduit and terminating at a point150 metres north-east of the junction of the access to Hams Hall electricity substation with Hams Lane. Work No. 3/43 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/35, 3/36, 3/39C, 3/40, 3/41 and 3/41B.Parish of Curdworth— 30Work No. 3/44 - A diversion of the A4097 Kingsbury Road commencing at a point 110 metres north-east of its junction with theM42 Junction 9 roundabout and terminating at a point 110 metres south-west of its junction with Marston Lane. Work No. 3/44 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/35, 3/36, 3/39C and 3/40; 35Work No. 3/44A - An access road commencing at a point 75 metres south-east of the junction of Kingsbury Road with Footpath M14 and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/44 at a point 255 metres south west of the junction of Marston Lane with Kingsbury Road.Parishes of Curdworth and Lea Marston— 40Work No. 3/45A - A diversion of a fuel pipeline commencing beneath a point 20 metres west of Fox’s Bridge over the Birmingham and Fazeley Canal and terminating beneath a point 230 metres north-east of the junction of Marston Lane with Kingsbury Road.Parishes of Wishaw and Middleton— 45 Work No. 3/45B - An improvement of Cuttle Mill Lane commencing ata point 450 metres south-east of its junction with the A4091 Tamworth Road and terminating at a point 10 metres south-east ofthat junction.Parish of Curdworth— 50
￼￼￼80High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 3/46 - A spur railway (0.07 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the termination of Works Nos. 3/35 and 3/40 passing north-eastwards and terminating at a point 65 metres north-east of its commencement.Parish of Lea Marston— 5 Work No. 3/47 - A bridge carrying Footpath M23a over Work No. 3/39C commencing at a point 380 metres south of the Marston FarmHotel and terminating at a point 120 metres north-west of itscommencement.Parishes of Lea Marston and Kingsbury— 10 Work No. 3/47A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point310 metres north-east of Marston Farm Hotel and terminating at apoint 95 metres north-west of its commencement.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Middleton, County of Staffordshire, District of Lichfield, Parishes of 15 Drayton Bassett, Hints, Weeford, Swinfen and Packington, Whittington and Fradley and Streethay—Work No. 3/48 - A railway (19.23 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with the termination of Work No. 3/36 passing northwards and terminating at a point 760 metres north-west of the 20 junction of Netherstowe Lane with Wood End Lane. Work No. 3/48 includes viaducts over Langley Brook, Black Brook, Cappers Lane,the Wyrley and Essington Canal, West Coast Main Line, South Staffordshire Line, Rykneld Street, Rykneld Street off-slip onto Burton Road, Trent and Mersey Canal, Works Nos. 3/89A and 3/ 25 107A and a bridge over Work No. 3/68.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Middleton—Work No. 3/49 - An access road commencing at a point 770 metres south-east of the junction of Bodymoor Heath Lane with the A4091 30 Tamworth Road and terminating at a point 610 metres north-east ofits commencement;Work No. 3/50 - A diversion of Bodymoor Heath Lane commencing bya junction with Brick Kiln Lane at a point 190 metres west of its junction with the A4091 Tamworth Road and terminating at a point 35 440 metres east of that junction. Work No. 3/50 includes a bridgeover Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/50A - An access road commencing at a point on BondStreet 360 metres north-east of its junction with Bodymoor HeathLane and terminating at a point 60 metres east of its commencement. 40Work No. 3/50B - A diversion of Brick Kiln Lane by a junction with the A4091 Tamworth Road and terminating at a point 190 metres west of that junction;Work No. 3/51 - A diversion of the A4091 Tamworth Road commencing at a point 330 metres north of its junction with Brick 45 Kiln Lane and terminating at a point 485 metres north of its junctionwith Park Lane. Work No. 3/51 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/51A - A diversion of Park Lane commencing at a point 205 metres south-west of its junction with the A4091 Tamworth Road 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works81￼and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/51 at a point 125metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/51B - A diversion of Crowberry Lane commencing by ajunction with Work No. 3/51A at a point 110 metres south-west of its junction with Park Lane and terminating at a point 210 metres north- 5 west of its commencement;Work No. 3/52 - A diversion of Church Lane commencing at a point 70metres west of its junction with Crowberry Lane and terminating ata point 110 metres west of the bridge carrying Tamworth Road over Church Lane. Work No. 3/52 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/48; 10Work No. 3/52A - A spur road commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/52 at a point 95 metres north-east of the junction of Crowberry Lane with Church Lane and terminating at a point 135 metres east of that junction;Work No. 3/53 - A diversion of a gas main commencing beneath a point 15 470 metres south-west of the crossing of Footpath T15 over GallowsBrook and terminating beneath a point 480 metres north of its commencement;Work No. 3/54 - A footbridge carrying Footpath T15 over Work No. 3/48 commencing at a point 390 metres south-west of the crossing of 20 Footpath T15 over Gallows Brook and terminating at a point 230metres north-east of its commencement.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Middleton, County of Staffordshire, District of Lichfield, Parish of Drayton Bassett— 25Work No. 3/55 - A diversion of Gallows Brook commencing at a point 500 metres west of its junction with Footpath T15 and terminating at a point 150 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/56 - A diversion of Gallows Brook commencing at a point810 metres north-west of its junction with Footpath T15 and 30 terminating at a point 335 metres north-west of its commencement.County of Staffordshire, District of Lichfield, Parish of Drayton Bassett— Work No. 3/57 - A diversion of Shirrall Drive commencing at a point 420 metres south-west of its junction with Drayton Lane andterminating by a junction with Work No. 3/58 at a point 320 metres 35 north of its commencement;Work No. 3/58 - A diversion of Drayton Lane commencing at a point10 metres north-west of its junction with Shirrall Drive and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/59 at the junction ofSutton Road with Drayton Lane. Work No. 3/58 includes a bridge 40 over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/59 - A realignment of the A453 Sutton Road/CarrowayHead Hill commencing at a point 90 metres south-west of its junctionwith Drayton Lane and terminating at a point 330 metres north-eastof its commencement. Work No. 3/59 includes a bridge over Work 45 No. 3/48;Work No. 3/59A - A temporary diversion of the A453 Sutton Road/ Carroway Head Hill commencing at a point 90 metres south-west ofits junction with Drayton Lane and terminating at a point 460 metres north-east of its commencement; 50Work No. 3/60 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 720 metres south-east of the junction of Footpath Drayton Bassett 11 with
￼￼￼82High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksFootpath Drayton Bassett 12 and terminating beneath a point 650metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/61 - A footbridge carrying Footpath Drayton Bassett 11over Work No. 3/48 commencing at a point 370 metres north-east ofthe junction of Footpath Drayton Bassett 11 with Footpath Drayton 5 Bassett 12 and terminating at a point 240 metres north-east of its commencement.Parishes of Hints and Drayton Bassett—Work No. 3/63 - A diversion of Bangley Lane commencing at a point300 metres north-east of the junction of Footpath Drayton Bassett 11 10 with Footpath Drayton Bassett 12 and terminating at a point 410metres north-east of its commencement. Work No. 3/63 includes abridge over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/63B - An access road commencing by a junction with WorkNo. 3/63 at a point 370 metres north-east of the junction of Footpath 15 Drayton Bassett 11 with Footpath Drayton Bassett 12 and terminating at a point 220 metres north-west of its commencement.Parish of Hints—Work No. 3/65 - A footbridge carrying Footpath Hints 14 over WorkNo. 3/48 commencing at a point 70 metres north-east of the junction 20 of Footpath Hints 14 with Footpath Hints 13 and terminating at apoint 320 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No; 3/67 - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point 330metres north-east of the junction of footpath Hints 13 with Hints 14and terminating beneath a point 490 metres north-west of its 25 commencement;Work No. 3/68 - A realignment of Brockhurst Lane commencing at apoint 510 metres north-west of the junction of Footpath Hints 13 and Footpath Hints 14 and terminating at a point 100 metres north-eastof its commencement; 30Work No. 3/70 - A temporary bridge over Black Brook commencing at a point 420 metres south-east of the junction of Footpath Hints 5 with Watling Street and terminating at a point 20 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/71 - A realignment of Watling Street commencing at a 35 point 120 metres south-east of its junction with Footpath Hints 5 and terminating at a point 160 metres south-east of its commencement.Work No. 3/71 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/71A - A temporary diversion of Watling Street commencing at a point 350 metres south-east of its junction with 40 Footpath Hints 5 and terminating at a point 350 metres north-west ofits commencement.Parishes of Hints and Weeford—Work No. 3/72 - A realignment of the A5 Fazeley to Weeford NewRoad commencing at a point beneath the Flats Lane Overbridge and 45 terminating at its junction with the Bridleway Hints 3 crossing.Work No. 3/72 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/48.Parish of Hints—Work No. 3/72A - A footbridge carrying Bridleway Hints 4 over the A5 Fazeley to Weeford New Road commencing at a point 260 metres 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works83￼east of the junction of Footpath Hints 5 with Watling Street and terminating at a point 345 metres north of its commencement.Parishes of Weeford and Swinfen and Packington—Work No. 3/74 - A diversion of Flats Lane and Jerrys Lane commencingat a point 570 metres north-east of the junction of Flats Lane with 5 Watling Street and terminating at a point 305 metres north-east of the junction of Jerrys Lane with Knox’s Grave Lane. Work No. 3/74 includes a bridge over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/75 - A road commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/74 at a point 170 metres south-west of the junction of Flats Lane with 10 Knox’s Grave Lane and terminating at a point 170 metres north-westof its commencement;Work No. 3/76 - A realignment of Knox’s Grave Lane commencing ata point 85 metres east of its junction with Flats Lane and terminatingat a point 155 metres east of its commencement. 15Parish of Swinfen and Packington—Work No. 3/77A - A footbridge carrying Bridleway Swinfen andPackington 8 over Work No. 3/48 commencing at a point 690 metres north-west of the junction of that bridleway with Jerrys Lane and terminating at a point 80 metres west of its commencement; 20Work No. 3/78 - A diversion of an access road to The Bungalow commencing at a point 810 metres north-west of the junction of Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 8 with Jerrys Lane and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/79 at a point 260 metres south-west of the junction of the access road to Ingleyhill Farm with 25 Tamworth Road;Work No. 3/79 - A diversion of an access road commencing at a point40 metres south-west of the junction of Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 8 with Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 9 with Tamworth Road and terminating at a point 380 metres south-east of 30 its commencement.Parishes of Swinfen and Packington and Whittington—Work No. 3/80 - A realignment of the A51 Tamworth Roadcommencing at a point 250 metres south-east of its junction with Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 9 and terminating at a point 130 35 metres north-west of its commencement. Work No. 3/80 includes abridge over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/80A - A temporary diversion of the A51 Tamworth Road commencing at a point 70 metres north-west of its junction with Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 9 and terminating by its junction 40 with the access road to Ingleyhill Farm;Work No. 3/81 - A diversion of the access road to Freeford Home Farm commencing at a point 50 metres south-west of its junction with Tamworth Road and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/80A at a point 50 metres north-east of its commencement. 45Parish of Whittington—Work No. 3/83 - A diversion of Sandy Lane commencing at a point 100 metres south-east of its junction with Lichfield Road and terminating at a point 95 metres north-west of that junction;
￼￼￼84High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 3/84 - A realignment of Lichfield Road commencing at a point 90 metres east of its junction with Marsh Lane and terminating at a point 85 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/84A - A temporary diversion of Lichfield Road commencing at its junction with Marsh Lane and terminating at a 5 point 285 metres east of its commencement;Work No. 3/85 - A diversion of Darnford Lane commencing at a point130 metres north-east of its junction with Marsh Lane and terminating at a point 60 metres north-west of its junction with theaccess track to Ellfield Nurseries. Work No. 3/85 includes a bridge 10 over Work No. 3/48;Work No. 3/85A - An access road commencing by a junction withWork No. 3/85 at a point 225 metres north-east of the junction ofMarsh Lane with Darnford Lane and terminating at a point 45 metressouth of its commencement. 15Parish of Fradley and Streethay—Work No. 3/86 - A diversion of the access road to the Wyrley & Essington Canal Marina Car Park commencing at a point 255 metres north-west of the junction of the access to Mill Farm and CappersLane and terminating at a point 90 metres east of its commencement; 20Work No. 3/87 - A realignment of Broad Lane commencing at a point 210 metres north-east of its junction with Cappers Lane and terminating at a point 270 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/87A - A temporary diversion of Broad Lane commencingat a point 230 metres north-east of its junction with Cappers Lane and 25 terminating at a point 330 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/89 - A diversion of an access road to Manor House commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/89A at a point 370 metres north-east of the junction of Ash Tree Lane with Burton Roadand terminating by a junction with its existing access; 30Work No. 3/89A - A diversion of the A38 Rykneld Street northern slip road commencing at its junction with Burton Road and terminating at a point 310 metres south-west of its junction with the access road to Orchard Farm;Work No. 3/89B - A temporary road commencing by a junction with 35 the A38 Rykneld Street at a point 50 metres north-east of the bridge carrying that road over the West Coast Main Line and terminating ata point 410 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/90 - A diversion of Mare Brook commencing at a point 430metres south-west of the junction of the access road to Orchard Farm 40 with Rykneld Street and terminating at point 130 metres south-westof its commencement;Work No. 3/91 - A diversion of Mare Brook commencing at a point 500metres south-west of the junction of Nanseawen Road with WoodEnd Lane and terminating at a point 255 metres north-west of its 45 commencement;Work No. 3/91A - An access road commencing at a point 180 metres south-west of the roundabout at the end of Nanseawen Road and terminating at a point 15 metres south-west of that roundabout.Parishes of Fradley and Streethay, King’s Bromley and Armitage with 50 Handsacre—￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works85￼Work No. 3/93 - A railway (6.22 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with Work No. 3/48 at a point 494 metres south-west ofthe junction of Nanseawen Road with Wood End Lane passing north-westwards and terminating by a junction with Works Nos. 3/104 and 3/106 at a point 180 metres north-east of the junction of 5 Rowan Drive with Lichfield Road. Work No. 3/93 includes viaductsover the Trent and Mersey Canal, Pyford Brook, Bourne Brook and bridges over Works Nos. 3/95, 3/103, 3/103B and 3/106.Parishes of Fradley and Streethay and King’s Bromley—Work No. 3/94 - A railway (2.63 kilometres in length) commencing by 10 a junction with Work No. 3/48 at a point 494 metres south-west ofthe junction of Nanseawen Road with Wood End Lane passing north-westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/93at a point 575 metres north-east of the junction of Watery Lane withWood End Lane. Work No. 3/94 includes viaducts over the Trent 15 and Mersey Canal and Pyford Brook and bridges over Works Nos.3/95 and 3/48.Parish of Fradley and Streethay—Work No. 3/95 - A diversion of Wood End Lane commencing by itsjunction with Gorse Lane and terminating at a point 270 metres 20 north-west of its junction with Netherstowe Lane;Work No. 3/95A - An access road commencing at a point 560 metres south-east of the junction of Netherstowe Lane with Wood End Laneand terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/95 at a point 335metres south-east of that junction; 25Work No. 3/96 - A diversion of an access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/95 at a point 60 metres south-west of the junction of Gorse Lane with Wood End Lane and terminating at apoint 150 metres north-east of the junction of Netherstowe Lane withWood End Lane; 30Work No. 3/97 - A diversion of Netherstowe Lane commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/95 at a point 170 metres south-west of its junction with Wood End Lane and terminating at a point 310 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 3/98 - A temporary bridge over the Trent and Mersey Canal 35 commencing at a point 490 metres north-west of the junction of Netherstowe Lane with Wood End Lane and terminating 40 metres north-west of its commencement.Parish of King’s Bromley—Work No. 3/99 - A temporary bridge over the Trent and Mersey Canal 40commencing at a point 100 metres north-west of Woodend Lock Cottage and terminating at a point 65 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/100 - A diversion of an access road to Ravenshaw Cottage commencing at a point 220 metres north-west of Ravenshaw Cottage 45 and terminating at a point 80 metres south-east of its junction with Lichfield Road;Work No. 3/100A - A gas main diversion commencing beneath a point390 metres north-west of the junction of Footpath King’s Bromley0.392 with Wood End Lane and terminating beneath a point 185 50 metres north-west of Ravenshaw Cottage;
￼￼￼86High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksWork No. 3/103 - A realignment of the A515 Lichfield Road commencing at a point 170 metres north-east of its junction with Wood End Lane and terminating at a point 230 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/103B - A temporary diversion of the A515 Lichfield Road 5 commencing at a point 50 metres north of its junction with WoodEnd Land and terminating at a point 430 metres north-east of its commencement;Work No. 3/103C - An access road commencing at a point 50 metressouth of the junction of Wood End Lane with Lichfield Road and 10 terminating at a point 200 metres south-west of the junction of Tuppenhurst Lane with Shaw Lane.Parishes of Armitage with Handsacre and King’s Bromley—Work No. 3/104 - A diversion of the West Coast Main Line (1.90kilometres in length) commencing at a point 20 metres north-west of 15 the bridge carrying Shaw Lane over that railway, passing north- westwards and terminating at a point 20 metres south-east of thebridge carrying the B5014 over that railway.Parish of King’s Bromley—Work No. 3/105 - A realignment of the access road south-west of Shaw 20Lane commencing at a point 330 metres south-west of the junction of Tuppenhurst Lane with Shaw Lane and terminating at a point 55 metres south-west of its commencement.Parishes of King’s Bromley and Armitage with Handsacre—Work No. 3/106 - A diversion of the West Coast Main Line (3.11 25 kilometres in length) commencing at a point 20 metres north of thebridge carrying the A575 Lichfield Road over that railway passing north-westwards and terminating at a point 22 metres south-east ofthe bridge carrying that railway over the A513 New Road.Parish of Fradley and Streethay— 30 Work No. 3/107A - A temporary railway (3.25 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the West Coast Main Line at a point110 metres west of Huddlesford Bridge carrying that railway overthe Coventry Canal passing northwards and terminating by ajunction with the South Staffordshire Line at a point 265 metres 35 south-west of the bridge carrying Brookhay Lane over that canal.Work No. 3/107A includes a bridge over the Coventry Canal;Work No. 3/107B - A temporary spur railway (1.00 kilometre in length) commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/107A at a point 436metres east of the bridge carrying the A38 Rykneld Street over the 40 West Coast Main Line and terminating by a junction with that workat a point 200 metres north-east of the bridge carrying the A38 Rykneld Street over the South Staffordshire Line;Work No. 3/107C - A temporary spur railway (0.69 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/107A at a point 45 1120 metres south-west of the bridge carrying Brookhay Lane overthe Coventry Canal passing north-eastwards and terminating at apoint 450 metres south-west of that bridge.Parish of Colton—￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works87￼Work No. 3/109 - An improvement of the Chase Line and a realignment of the West Coast Main Line (2.47 kilometres in length) commencing by a junction with the Chase Line at a point 30 metresnorth of the bridge carrying that line over the river Trent, passing north-westwards and terminating by a junction with the West Coast 5 Main Line at a point 115 metres south-east of the bridge carrying that railway over Bellamour Lane.District of Stafford, Parish of Colwich—Work No. 3/110 - An improvement of the North Staffordshire Line(1.43 kilometres in length) commencing at a point 330 metres west of 10 the bridge carrying Bishton Lane over that railway and the West CostMain Line passing westwards and terminating at a point 10 metres south-east of the bridge carrying the North Staffordshire Line over Meadow Lane;Work No. 3/111 - An improvement of the West Coast Main Line at 15 Colwich Junction (0.43 kilometres in length) commencing at a point300 metres south-west of the bridge carrying the A51 Lichfield Roadover that railway passing south-westwards and terminating at apoint 225 metres east of the bridge carrying Meadow Lane over that railway. 20District of Lichfield, Parish of Curborough and Elmhurst—Work No. 3/112 - A railway siding on the West Coast Main Line (2.82 kilometres in length) commencing at a point 750 metres north-westof Burton Road overbridge, passing north-westwards and terminating at a point 670 metres north-west of the footbridge 25 carrying Footpath Curborough and Elmhurst over that railway.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parishes of Coleshill and Water Orton—Work No. 3/151 - A railway (4.19 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing at a point 260 metres north-east of the bridge 30 junction of the M6 Junction 4 Eastbound Off Slip Road and the M42/M6 Eastbound Link passing northwards and terminating at a point160 metres north-east of the subway beneath the M6 Motorway.Work No. 3/151 includes viaducts over Coleshill Brook, M6-M42 Motorway Link, Works Nos. 3/27A, 3/29, 3/153 and bridges over 35 Work No. 3/28;Work No. 3/152 - A railway (4.12 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing at a point 280 metres north of the bridge junction of the M6 Junction 4 Eastbound Off Slip Road and the M42/M6 Eastbound Link passing northwards and terminating at a point 40 160 metres north-east of the subway beneath the M6 Motorway.Work No. 3/152 includes viaducts over Coleshill Brook, M6-M42 Motorway Link, Works Nos. 3/27A, 3/29, 3/155 and bridges over Work No. 3/28.Parishes of Curdworth, Coleshill and Water Orton— 45 Work No. 3/153 - A railway (3.35 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 3/35 and 3/36at a point 320 metres west of the southernmost bridge carrying Faraday Avenue over the Birmingham and Derby Line, passingwestwards and terminating at a point 160 metres north-east of the 50 subway beneath the M6 Motorway. Work No. 3/153 includes a
￼￼￼88High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksviaduct over the Birmingham and Derby Line, Minworth Effluent Conduit, the River Tame, the Birmingham to Nuneaton Line, A446 Lichfield Road, Gilson Road, M6/M42 Link Southbound, M42 Motorway/M6 Toll, Works Nos. 3/36 and 3/39B;Work No. 3/154 - A railway (3.28 kilometres in length) partly on 5 viaduct commencing by a junction with Works Nos. 3/35 and 3/36at a point 320 metres west of the southernmost bridge carrying Faraday Avenue over the Birmingham and Derby Line, passing westwards and terminating at a point 160 metres north-east of the subway beneath the M6 Motorway. Work No. 3/154 includes a 10 viaduct over the Birmingham and Derby Line, Minworth Effluent Conduit, the River Tame, the Birmingham to Nuneaton Line, A446 Lichfield Road, Gilson Road, M6/M42 Link Southbound, M42 Motorway/M6 Toll, Works No 3/39B.Parishes of Coleshill and Water Orton— 15 Work No. 3/155 - A road forming an extension to Attleboro Road commencing at a point 360 metres north-west of the junction of Footpath M57 with Footpath M54 and terminating at a point 50metres south-east of its junction with the southern access toAttleboro Farm. 20 Parish of Coleshill—Work No. 3/155A - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point 285 metres east of the junction of Footpath M57 with Footpath M54 and terminating at a point 35 metres south of that junction.Parishes of Coleshill and Water Orton— 25 Work No. 3/155B - A diversion of a watercourse commencing at a point155 metres south-east of the junction of Gypsy Lane with ColeshillRoad and terminating at a point 155 metres north-east of junction ofthe A452 Chester Road with Lanchester Way;Work No. 3/155C - A diversion of a watercourse commencing by a 30 junction with Work No. 2/155B at a point 240 metres south of the junction of Gypsy Lane with Coleshill Road and terminating at apoint 280 metres north-west of its commencement.Parish of Water Orton—Work No. 3/156 - A diversion of Attleboro Lane commencing at a point 35100 metres north of its junction with the northern access road to Attleboro Farm and terminating at a point 465 metres north of that junction. Work No. 3/156 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/151, 3/152, 3/153 and 3/154.County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Water 40 Orton, City of Birmingham—Work No. 3/157 - A railway (1.13 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with the termination of WorksNos. 3/151, 3/152, 3/153 and 3/154 passing westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/200 at a point 317 metres 45 north-west of the bridge carrying Water Orton Road over the M6 Motorway;Work No. 3/158 - A diversion of a fuel pipeline commencing beneath a point 350 metres east of the junction of the A452 with Lanchester￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works89￼Way and terminating beneath a point 305 metres north-west of the entrance to the Twisted Oak Riding Stables.City of Birmingham—Work No. 3/159 - A realignment of Water Orton Road commencing ata point 155 metres south-west of the entrance to the Twisted Oak 5 Riding Stables and terminating at a point 170 metres south-west ofits commencement;Work No. 3/159A - A temporary diversion of Water Orton Road commencing at a point 190 metres south-west of the entrance to the Twisted Oak Riding Stables and terminating at a point 125 metres 10 south-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/159B - A diversion of an access road to Park Hall Estate commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/159 at a point 295metres south-west of the entrance to the Twisted Oak Riding Stablesand terminating at a point 285 metres west of its commencement; 15Work No. 3/200 - A railway (2.06 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with Work No. 3/157 at its termination, passing generally westwards and terminating at a point 165 metres south of the junction of Cadbury Drive and Beale Close. Work No. 3/200 includesa viaduct over Work No. 3/202 and bridge over a Work No. 3/202A; 20Work No. 3/201 - A diversion of a fuel pipeline beneath a point 205 metres south-west of the bridge carrying the Birmingham and Derby Line over the River Tame and terminating beneath a point 200 metres south-east of the junction of Lancaster Drive with Blenheim Way;Work No. 3/202 - A diversion of the River Tame commencing at a point 25 505 metres west of the bridge carrying the Birmingham and DerbyLine over the River Tame and terminating at a point 210 metres eastof the junction of Orton Way with Tameside Drive;Work No. 3/202A - A diversion of Plants Brook commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/202 at a point 72 metres south-east of the 30 culvert carrying Plants Brook beneath the Birmingham and DerbyLine and terminating at the southern end of that culvert;Work No. 3/202B - A diversion of the Dunlop Channel commencing bya junction with Work No. 3/202 at a point 140 metres south-east ofthe of the culvert carrying Dunlop Channel beneath the Birmingham 35 and Derby Line and terminating at a point 165 metres south-east ofthe junction of Lancaster Drive with Blenheim Way;Work No. 3/202C - An access road commencing at a point 245 metreswest of the bridge carrying the Birmingham to Derby Line overPlants Brook and terminating by a junction with Javelin Avenue at a 40 point 140 metres north-west of its commencement;Work No. 3/203 - A railway (2.86 kilometres in length, in tunnel) commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/200 at its termination, passing westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/205 at a point 245 metres north-west of the junction of Wolsey Drive 45 and Bromford Lane;Work No. 3/204 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point190 metres east of the junction of Tameside Drive with the A452 Chester Road and terminating beneath a point 15 metres south of the junction of Kenrick Croft with Cadbury Drive; 50Work No. 3/204A - A diversion of a high pressure gas main commencing beneath a point 150 metres north east of the junction of
￼￼￼90High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksBromford Drive with Ayala Croft and terminating beneath a point 250 metres north-west of the junction of Ayrshire Close with Bromford Drive;Work No. 3/205 - A railway (5.09 kilometres in length) partly on viaduct commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/203 at its 5 termination, passing south-westwards and terminating at a point545 metres north-west of the junction of Freeman Street with ParkStreet; Work No. 3/205 includes a bridge over the Grand UnionCanal and a new station (Curzon Street);Work No. 3/205A - A railway (2.41 kilometres in length) commencing 10 by a junction with Work No. 3/205 at a point 190 metres south-eastof the junction of the access road to Hurricane Park with Heartlands Parkway, passing westwards then south-westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/205 at a point 165 metres south-west of the junction of Crawford Street with Cranby Street. 15 Work No. 3/205A includes a bridge over the Grand Union Canal;Work No. 3/205B - A railway (1.51 kilometres in length) commencingat a point 80 metres north-east of the western limit of Wolseley Drive, passing westwards then south-westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/205A at a point 160 metres north of the 20 junction of Arley Road with Aston Church Road;Work No. 3/206 - A realignment of Wolseley Drive commencing at the junction of that road with Bromford Lane and terminating at a point 132 metres west of its commencement;Work No. 3/207 - Protective works to the bed of the River Tame 25 commencing at a point 170 metres north-west of the junction of Wolseley Drive with Bromford Lane and terminating at a point 110metres south-west of the junction of Heartlands Parkway and Bromford Lane;Work No. 3/208 - A diversion of Washwood Heath Brook commencing 30 at a point 100 metres north-west of the junction of Wolseley Drivewith Bromford Lane and terminating at a point 60 metres south ofthe northern limit of Common Lane;Work No. 3/208A - A diversion of Washwood Heath Brook commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/208 at a point 369 35 metres south-west of the western limit of Wolseley Drive and terminating at a point 44 metres south of its commencement;Work No. 3/209 - A railway (1.35 kilometres in length) commencing ata point 60 metres north-east of the western limit of Wolseley Drive, passing westwards and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/ 40 205B at a point 209 metres north-east of the junction of Arley Roadwith Aston Church Road;Work No. 3/209A - A railway (2.66 kilometres in length) commencingat a point 80 metres north-east of the western limit of Wolseley Drive, passing westwards then southwards and terminating by a junction 45 with Work No. 3/205A at a point 134 metres north-west of the junction of Crawford Street with Cranby Street;Work No. 3/209B - A railway (0.75 kilometres in length) commencingby a junction with Work No. 3/209A at a point 296 metres south ofthe junction of Hurricane Park Access with Heartlands Parkway 50 passing south-westwards and terminating at a point 445 metres south-west of the northern limit of Common Lane;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works91￼Work No. 3/210 - A railway (1.69 kilometres in length) being a realignment of Washwood Heath through siding of the Birminghamand Derby Line, commencing at a point 332 metres south-east of the junction of Hurricane Park Access with Heartlands Parkway, passing westwards and terminating at a point 179 metres west of the 5 junction Arley Road with Aston Church Road;Work No. 3/211 - A diversion of a sewer commencing in CommonLane beneath a point 85 metres south of the northern limit of Common Lane and terminating beneath a point 170 metres south-west of the junction of Chartist Road with Arley Road; 10Work No. 3/212 - A diversion of a sewer commencing in Pennine Way beneath a point 320 metres north-west of the roundabout junction of Washwood Heath Road, Alum Rock Road, Adderley Road and HighStreet and terminating beneath a point 195 metres north-west of the roundabout junction of Pembroke Way with Pennine Way; 15Work No. 3/215 - A realignment of Aston Church Road commencing ata point 125 metres south-east of the junction of Arley Road with thatroad and terminating at the junction of that road with Heartlands Parkway. Work No. 3/215 includes bridges over Works Nos. 3/217,3/205, 3/205A and 3/209A and the Birmingham and Derby Line 20 railway;Work No. 3/215A - Alteration of the level of Arley Road commencingby a junction with Work No. 3/215 in Aston Church Road and terminating in Arley Road at a point 80 metres south of its commencement; 25Work No. 3/215B - An access road commencing by a junction with Work No. 3/215 at a point 30 metres west of the junction of Arley Road with Aston Church Road and terminating at a point 65 metres north of that junction;Work No. 3/216 - A partial reconstruction and extension of the bridge 30 carrying the Stechford and Aston Line over the Birmingham andDerby Line commencing at a point 65 metres north-west of the junction of Arley Road with Aston Church Road and terminating ata point 55 metres south-east of the bridge carrying the Stechford andAston Line over Watson Road; 35 Work No. 3/217 - A diversion of the River Rea Overflow Channel commencing at a point 35 metres north of the junction of WatsonRoad East with Heartlands Parkway and terminating at a point 240metres south-west of the roundabout junction of HeartlandsParkway with Aston Church Road; 40Work No. 3/217A - A diversion of a gas main commencing at a point 155 metres north-east of the Aston Church Road/Heartlands Parkway roundabout and terminating at a point 300 metres south- west of that roundabout;Work No. 3/218 - A railway (0.84 kilometres in length) commencing at 45 a point 20 metres east of the bridge carrying the Birmingham andDerby Line over the Grand Union Canal continuing in a generally southerly direction and terminating at a point 205 metres south ofthe bridge carrying Duddeston Mill Road over the Birmingham andDerby Line; 50 Work No. 3/219 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point160 metres west of the junction of Crawford Street with CranbyStreet and terminating in Duddeston Mill Road beneath a point 40
￼￼￼92High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled worksmetres east of the bridge carrying that road over the Birminghamand Derby Line;Work No. 3/220 - A realignment of Washwood Heath Road, HighStreet and Saltley Viaduct, including replacement of the existingSaltley viaduct commencing at a point 40 metres north-east of the 5 centre of the Alum Rock Road/Adderley Road/High Street roundabout and terminating at a point 35 metres east of the Mainstream Way/Saltley Road/Nechells Place/Heartlands Parkway roundabout;Work No. 3/220A - A diversion of Pennine Way commencing by a 10 junction with Work No. 3/220 at High Street and terminating in Pembroke Way at a point 130 metres north of the junction of Crawford Street with High Street;Work No. 3/220B - A realignment of Pembroke Way commencing inthat road at a point 25 metres north-west of its roundabout junction 15 with Pennine Way and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/220A at its termination;Work No. 3/221 - An access road commencing in Cranby Street at apoint 35 metres west of the bridge carrying that street over the GrandUnion Canal and terminating at a point 270 metres south-west of that 20 bridge;Work No. 3/222 - A sewer being an overflow from the Grand UnionCanal commencing beneath a point 100 metres north of the junctionof Cranby Street with Crawford Street and terminating in the GrandUnion Canal at a point 22 metres west of its commencement; 25Work No. 3/223 - A railway (0.24 kilometres in length) commencing bya junction with Work No. 3/218 at a point 60 metres south of thebridge carrying Duddeston Mill Road over the Birmingham andDerby Line and terminating by a junction with the Birmingham andDerby Line at Duddeston Junction at a point 300 metres south of the 30 bridge carrying Duddeston Mill Road over that line;Work No. 3/224 - A railway (0.99 kilometres in length) being a realignment of Duddeston Junction track layout, commencing at apoint 11 metres south of the bridge carrying the Birmingham andDerby Line over the Grand Union Canal, continuing in a generally 35 southerly direction and terminating at a point 310 metres south ofthe bridge carrying Duddeston Mill Road over the Birmingham and Derby Line;Work No. 3/225 - A realignment of Lawley Middleway commencing inthat road at a point 80 metres south-east of the bridge carrying that 40 road over the Birmingham and Bushbury Line and terminating inthat road at a point 160 metres north-east of Curzon Circus roundabout;Work No. 3/225A - A realignment of Lawley Middleway (southbound carriageway) commencing in that road at a point 20 metres south- 45 east of the bridge carrying that road over the Birmingham and Bushbury Line and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/225at Curzon Circus roundabout;Work No. 3/225B - A realignment of Vauxhall Road and Curzon Street commencing in Vauxhall Road at a point 125 metres north-east of 50 Curzon Circus roundabout and terminating in Curzon Street at apoint 140 metres south-west of that roundabout;￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 1 — Scheduled works93￼Work No. 3/225C - An access road commencing in Curzon Street by a junction with Work No. 3/225B at a point 90 metres south-west of Curzon Circus roundabout and terminating by a junction with MilesDruce Way at a point 35 metres east of the bridge carrying MilesDruce Way over the Digbeth Branch Canal; 5Work No. 3/226 - An access road commencing in Curzon Street by a junction with Work No. 3/227, at a point 100 metres north-east of the junction of that street with New Canal Street and terminating by a junction with Work No. 3/227 in New Canal Street at a point 55metres south of its junction with Banbury Street; 10Work No. 3/227 - A realignment of Curzon Street and New Canal Street commencing in Curzon Street at a point 160 metres north-east of the junction of that street with New Canal Street and terminating at the junction of New Bartholomew Street with New Canal Street;Work No. 3/228 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath Park 15 Street at a point 20 metres north of the junction of Bordesley Streetwith Park Street and terminating beneath a point 15 metres west ofthe western limit of Freeman Street;Work No. 3/229 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath NewCanal Street at a point 55 metres north of the junction of that street 20 with Fazeley Street and terminating beneath a point 140 metres north-east of the junction of New Canal Street with Curzon Street;Work No. 3/230 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point185 metres south of the bridge carrying Duddeston Mill Road overthe River Rea and terminating beneath a point 230 metres south-east 25 of the junction of Dollman Street with Alma Crescent;Work No. 3/231 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point220 metres south of the junction of Alma Crescent with DollmanStreet and terminating beneath a point 60 metres east of the junctionof Viaduct Street with Northumberland Street; 30Work No. 3/232 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point 45 metres south-east of the junction of Viaduct Street with Northumberland Street and terminating in Viaduct Street beneath a point 40 metres south-west of that junction;Work No. 3/233 - A diversion of a sewer commencing beneath a point 35 60 metres south-west of the junction of Viaduct Street with Northumberland Street and terminating beneath a point 10 metres south-east of the junction of Viaduct Street with St James’ Place.SCHEDULE 2WORKSPART 1FURTHER AND SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONSAuthority to survey and investigate land etc1 (1) The nominated undertaker may for the purposes of this Act—Section 2(4)40(a) survey or investigate land which is within the Act limits or which 45 may be affected by the works authorised by this Act;
￼￼￼94High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — Works Part 1 — Further and supplementary provisions(b) take steps to protect or remove any flora or fauna on land which may be affected by the carrying out of the works authorised by this Act.￼(2) The power in sub-paragraph (1)(a) includes power to—(a) make trial holes in such positions as the nominated undertakerthinks fit on the land to investigate the nature of the surface layer and 5 subsoil;(b) carry out ecological or archaeological investigations on the land;(c) take samples of anything in or on the land.(3) Sub-paragraph (2)(a) does not authorise the making of trial holes in a carriageway or footway without the consent of the highway authority; but 10 such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.(4) Any dispute as to the giving of consent under sub-paragraph (3) must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree; but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State.(5) In connection with the exercise of the powers in sub-paragraph (1) the 15 nominated undertaker may—(a) place or leave apparatus for use in connection with those powers on, and remove such apparatus from, land within the Act limits or land which may be affected by the works authorised by this Act;(b) enter on land within the Act limits or land which may be affected by 20 the works authorised by this Act,and the land referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) need not be the same as the land in relation to which the powers in sub-paragraph (1) are being or are to be exercised.(6) No land may be entered, or apparatus placed or left on or removed from 25 land, under this paragraph unless at least 7 days’ notice has been given toevery owner and occupier of the land.Support of buildings2 (1) Thenominatedundertakermaysupportorstrengthenabuildingwithinthe relevant distance of any of the works authorised by this Act if— 30(a) it is necessary or expedient, in consequence of or for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the work, for the building to be supported or strengthened, and(b) the nominated undertaker gives at least 8 weeks’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the building of its intention to support or 35 strengthen it.(2) If, within 21 days of the giving of a notice under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the person to whom the notice has been given gives to the nominated undertaker notice disputing that the condition in sub-paragraph (1)(a) ismet, the dispute must be referred to arbitration. 40(3) If—(a) under sub-paragraph (2) the arbitrator decides that the condition in sub-paragraph (1)(a) is met, and(b) one of the parties to the dispute so requires,the arbitrator must prescribe how the supporting or strengthening is to be 45 carried out.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — WorksPart 1 — Further and supplementary provisions95￼3 (1)The nominated undertaker may, at any time within the permitted period, further support or strengthen a building which has been supported or strengthened under paragraph 2 if— 20(a) it is necessary or expedient, in consequence of or for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of any of the works authorised by this Act, for the building to be further supported or strengthened, and(b) the nominated undertaker gives at least 8 weeks’ notice to the 25 owners and occupiers of the building of its intention further to support or strengthen it.(4) Where the supporting or strengthening of a building under this paragraphcannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering land adjacent to the building, the nominated undertaker may, on giving at least14 days’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the adjacent land, enter theland (but not any building on it) and carry out the work. 5(5) Incaseofemergency,thepowerundersub-paragraph(1)or(4)isexercisable without notice.(6) Forthepurposeofdecidingwhetherorhowtoexerciseitspowersunderthis paragraph, the nominated undertaker may enter and survey—(a) any building within the relevant distance of any of the works 10 authorised by this Act, or(b) any land adjacent to such a building (but not any building on any such land).(7) The nominated undertaker may, in connection with the exercise of thepower under this paragraph to support or strengthen a building, place and 15 leave (temporarily or permanently) any equipment or material in, next to orunder the building or on or under land in the vicinity of the building.(2) In sub-paragraph (1), “the permitted period” is the period beginning withthe completion of the supporting or strengthening under paragraph 2 and ending 5 years after the date on which the work which necessitated the 30 supporting or strengthening was brought into general use.(3) If, within 21 days of the giving of a notice under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the person to whom the notice has been given gives to the nominated undertaker notice disputing that the condition in sub-paragraph (1)(a) ismet, the dispute must be referred to arbitration. 35(4) If—(a) under sub-paragraph (3), the arbitrator decides that the condition insub-paragraph (1)(a) is met, and(b) one of the parties to the dispute so requires,the arbitrator must prescribe how the supporting or strengthening is to be 40 carried out.(5) Where the supporting or strengthening of a building under this paragraphcannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering land adjacent to the building, the nominated undertaker may, on giving at least14 days’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the adjacent land, enter the 45 land (but not any building on it) and carry out the work.(6) Incaseofemergency,thepowerundersub-paragraph(1)or(5)isexercisable without notice.
￼￼￼96High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — Works Part 1 — Further and supplementary provisions￼4 (1)The nominated undertaker may, for a purpose mentioned in sub-paragraph(2), affix movement-measuring apparatus to a building within the relevant 10 distance of any of the works authorised by this Act on giving at least 8 weeks’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the building of its intention todo so.(7) Forthepurposeofdecidingwhetherorhowtoexerciseitspowersunderthis paragraph, the nominated undertaker may enter and survey—(a) any building which has been supported or strengthened under paragraph 2, or(b) any land adjacent to such a building (but not any building on any 5 such land).(8) Paragraph2(7)(powertoplaceandleaveequipmentormaterial)appliesfor the purposes of this paragraph.(2) The purposes referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are—(a) determining the extent of any movement in the building; 15(b) determining the effectiveness of support or strengthening work in respect of the building under paragraph 2 or 3.(3) In a case where movement-measuring apparatus is to be affixed inside a building, the notice under sub-paragraph (1) must state that fact.(4) If, within 21 days of the giving of the notice under sub-paragraph (1), the 20 person to whom the notice has been given gives to the nominated undertaker notice objecting to the affixing of movement-measuring apparatus (generally or in relation to how or where it is affixed), the questionmust be referred to arbitration.(5) Where, under sub-paragraph (4), the arbitrator decides that movement- 25 measuring apparatus may be affixed to the building, the arbitrator must, ifthe nominated undertaker or the person who made the objection so requires, prescribe how or where the affixing of the apparatus is to be carried out.(6) Wheretheaffixingofmovement-measuringapparatusunderthisparagraphcannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering land 30 adjacent to the building, the nominated undertaker may, on giving at least14 days’ notice to the owners and occupiers of the adjacent land, enter theland (but not any building on it) and carry out the affixing.(7) The nominated undertaker may—(a) maintain, repair or alter the position of movement-measuring 35 apparatus affixed under sub-paragraph (1);(b) take readings or data from any such apparatus.(8) Incaseofemergency,thepowerundersub-paragraph(1)or(6)isexercisable without notice.(9) For the purpose of deciding whether or how to exercise its powers under this 40 paragraph, the nominated undertaker may enter and survey—(a) any building within the relevant distance of any of the works authorised by this Act, or(b) any land adjacent to such a building (but not any building on anysuch land). 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — WorksPart 1 — Further and supplementary provisions97￼(10) In this paragraph, “movement-measuring apparatus” means apparatus for use in measuring any movement in a building or the ground on which a building is erected.5 (1)Paragraphs 2 to 4 apply in relation to—(a) any apparatus belonging to a utility undertaker, and 5 (b) a relevant pipe-line belonging to a person other than a utilityundertaker,as they apply in relation to a building, subject to the modifications specified in sub-paragraph (2).6 (1)(a) a cross-country pipe-line (within the meaning of the Pipe-lines Act 1962), and(b) a local pipe-line (within the meaning of that Act) in relation to the 25 construction of which a direction under section 6 of that Act has orhad effect.This paragraph has effect for the purposes of paragraphs 2 to 5.(2) Those modifications are that— 10(a) references to the owners and occupiers of a building are to be read asreferences to the owner of the apparatus or pipe-line;(b) references to land adjacent to a building are to be read, in the case of apparatus or a pipe-line situated below the surface of the ground, as including land above the site of the apparatus or pipe-line; 15(c) paragraph 2(7) applies as if the reference to placing or leaving equipment or material in, next to or under the building or on orunder land in the vicinity of the building were to placing and leaving equipment or material on any land above, next to or below the site ofthe apparatus or pipe-line, or on or under land in the vicinity of that 20 site.(3) In this paragraph, “relevant pipe-line” means—(2) “Building” includes any structure.(3) “Relevant distance”, in relation to any work, means— 30(a) 100 metres in any of the following cases—(i) where the work is comprised in so much of Works Nos. 1/1or 1/15 as lies between their commencement and the pointwhere they pass beneath Parkway in the London Borough of Camden; 35(ii) where the work is comprised in so much of Works Nos. 1/1 or 1/15 as lies between the points where they pass beneath Victoria Road and Chase Road in the London Borough of Camden;(iii) where the work is comprised in Work No. 1/16; 40(iv) where the work relates to the making of a shaft;(b) 50 metres in any other case.(4) A building (or, in the case of paragraph 5, apparatus or pipe-line) is within the “relevant distance” of a work if all or part of it is within that distance.(5) In the case of a work under the surface of the ground, a reference to a 45 building (or, in the case of paragraph 5, apparatus or pipe-line) within the relevant distance of that work includes a reference to a building (or
￼￼￼98High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — Works Part 1 — Further and supplementary provisionsapparatus or pipe-line) all or part of which is within the relevant distance of any point on the surface below which the work is situated.￼Trees on neighbouring land7 (1)This paragraph applies where—(a) a tree overhangs land used for Phase One purposes, or 5(b) the roots of a tree encroach on such land.(2) The nominated undertaker may by notice to the occupier of the land onwhich the tree is growing (a “tree works notice”) require the tree to be removed, topped or lopped, or its roots to be cut back, if it is necessary forthat to be done— 10(a) to enable works authorised by this Act to be constructed or maintained, or(b) for reasons of safety in connection with such works or the operation of Phase One of High Speed 2.(3) The person to whom a tree works notice is given may object to the notice by 15 giving the nominated undertaker a counter-notice to that effect before theend of 28 days beginning with the day on which the tree works notice isgiven.(4) If a counter-notice is given, the tree works notice has no effect unless confirmed by an order of the county court. 20(5) The nominated undertaker may carry out the works required by a tree works notice if the notice has been in effect for a continuous period of at least 28 days and has not been complied with.(6) Where the power under sub-paragraph (5) is exercisable, the nominated undertaker may, after giving 7 days’ notice to the occupier of the land on 25 which the tree concerned is growing, enter the land for the purpose of exercising the power in relation to it.(7) If the nominated undertaker tops or lops a tree, or cuts back the roots of a tree, in exercise of the power under sub-paragraph (5), it must do so—(a) in accordance with good arboricultural practice, and 30(b) in such a way as to cause the minimum of damage to the tree.(8) The following do not apply to works required by a tree works notice—(a) an order under section 198(1) or 202(1) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 and regulations under section 202A(1) of that Act(tree preservation orders); 35(b) section 211(1) and (5) of that Act (preservation of trees inconservation areas).Discharge of water8 (1) Thenominatedundertakermayuseanywatercourseoranypublicsewerordrain for the drainage of water for the purposes of or in connection with the 40 construction or maintenance of the works authorised by this Act and for that purpose—(a) may lay down, take up and alter pipes, and(b) on any land within the Act limits, may make connections with the watercourse, sewer or drain. 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — WorksPart 1 — Further and supplementary provisions99￼(2) The nominated undertaker must not discharge any water into any public sewer or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.(3) The nominated undertaker must not make any opening into any public 5 sewer or drain except—(a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain belongs, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld; and(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the 10 making of the opening.(4) Thenominatedundertakermustnot,intheexerciseofthepowersunderthis paragraph, damage or interfere with the beds or banks of any watercourse forming part of a main river.(5) The nominated undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably 15 practicable to secure that any water discharged into a watercourse or publicsewer or drain under the powers under this paragraph is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance or oil or matter in suspension.(6) Nothing in this paragraph overrides the requirement for an environmental 20 permit under regulation 12(1)(b) of the Environmental Permitting (Englandand Wales) Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/675).(7) Any dispute as to the giving of consent under this paragraph must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State. 25(8) In this paragraph—(a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to asewerage undertaker, the Environment Agency, the Homes and Communities Agency, an internal drainage board, a local authority,a joint planning board, an urban development corporation or a 30 harbour authority within the meaning of the Harbours Act 1964;(b) “watercourse” includes rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows, except a public sewer or drain;(c) other expressions used both in this paragraph and in the Water 35 Resources Act 1991 have the same meanings as in that Act.Temporary interference with waterways9 (1) Thepowersunderthisparagraphareexercisableinrelationtothefollowing waterways for the purposes of or in connection with the works authorisedby this Act— 40Grand Union Canal (Regents Canal),Grand Union Canal (Paddington Branch),River Brent,Grand Union Canal,River Colne, 45 River Misbourne,River Thame,
￼￼￼100High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — Works Part 1 — Further and supplementary provisionsPadbury Brook,River Great Ouse,River Cherwell,Oxford Canal,River Itchen, 5 River Leam,River Avon,River Cole,River Tame,Trent and Mersey Canal, 10 Wyrley and Essington Canal,Coventry Canal,River Blythe,Plants Brook,Dunlop Channel, 15 River Rea, andDigbeth Branch Canal.(2) The nominated undertaker may—(a) temporarily interfere with a waterway mentioned in sub-paragraph(1) at any point within the Act limits, by constructing or maintaining 20 such temporary works, or by carrying out such dredging works, as it considers necessary or expedient;(b) temporarily moor or anchor barges or other vessels or craft in a waterway mentioned in sub-paragraph (1);(c) temporarily close a waterway mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), or a 25 part of such a waterway, to navigation.(3) The power under sub-paragraph (2)(c) must be exercised in a way which secures—(a) that no more of the waterway is closed to navigation at any time thanis necessary in the circumstances, and 30(b) that, if complete closure of the waterway to navigation becomes necessary, all reasonable steps are taken to secure that the minimum obstruction, delay or interference is caused to vessels or craft which may be using or intending to use it.(4) The nominated undertaker is not liable for any loss suffered, or costs or 35 expenses incurred, by any person as a direct or indirect result of any interference in accordance with this paragraph with a public right of navigation.(5) Thenominatedundertakermustcompensateanypersonwhosufferslossasa result of any interference in accordance with this paragraph with a private 40 right of navigation.(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- paragraph (5), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — WorksPart 1 — Further and supplementary provisionsElectronic communications apparatus101￼10 (1) The nominated undertaker may, in installing any electronic communications apparatus in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act—(a) provide additional capacity for electronic communicationsapparatus belonging to any other person; 5(b) construct any extension or other alteration of electronic communications apparatus in connection with providing such additional capacity.(2) In sub-paragraph (1), “electronic communications apparatus”—(a) has the meaning given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 2 to the 10 Telecommunications Act 1984, but(b) excludes any radio mast.Level crossings11(1) The nominated undertaker may construct Work No 2/39 so as to carry the railway comprised in that work on the level across the following footpaths— 15￼AreaCounty of Buckinghamshire, District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Stoke MandevilleFootpath to be crossedFootpath SMA/11/2, with accommodation crossingFootpath SMA/16/2, with 20 accommodation crossing￼12(2) Inexercisingthepowerundersub-paragraph(1),thenominatedundertaker may alter the level of the footpaths specified in that sub-paragraph.(3) The nominated undertaker and the highway authority may enter into agreements concerning the construction and maintenance of any new level 25 crossing (and such agreements may include provision about contributions towards the expenses of construction or maintenance).(4) Inthisparagraph,“newlevelcrossing”meanstheplaceatwhichtherailway mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) crosses a footpath specified in that sub- paragraph. 30PART 2EXERCISE OF POWERS OF ENTRY ETC(1) This paragraph applies where the nominated undertaker has a power toenter land under paragraph 1, 2(1), (4) or (6), 3(1), (5) or (7), 4(1), (6), (7) or(9) or 7(6). 35(2) The power is exercisable at any reasonable time.(3) Before entering the land, the nominated undertaker or any authorised person must, if so required—(a) produce evidence of authority to enter the land, and(b) state the purpose of entry. 40
￼￼￼102High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — Works Part 2 — Exercise of powers of entry etc￼13 (1)14 (1)(a) a dwelling or part of a dwelling,(b) a garden, yard, private garage or outbuilding which is used and 40enjoyed wholly or mainly with a dwelling, or(c) in the case of a building which includes one or more dwellings, anypart of the building which is used and enjoyed wholly or mainly with those dwellings or any of them.Where the nominated undertaker exercises any power under paragraphs 1 45 to 4, it must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building or land in(4) For the purposes of exercising the power, the nominated undertaker or any authorised person may (subject to paragraph 13)—(a) take vehicles and equipment on to the land, and(b) take on to the land such other persons as may be necessary.(5) In this paragraph— 5 “authorised person” means a person exercising the relevant power ofentry on the nominated undertaker’s behalf; “equipment” includes plant and machinery.This paragraph applies where the nominated undertaker proposes to exercise a power of entry under paragraph 1, 2(1), (4) or (6), 3(1), (5) or (7) or 10 4(1), (6), (7) or (9) in relation to—(a) residential land, or(b) a building not on residential land.(2) If it appears to a justice of the peace—(a) that the nominated undertaker is entitled to exercise the relevant 15 power of entry in relation to the residential land or the building, and(b) that admission to the land or building has been refused or a refusalis reasonably apprehended,the justice must issue a warrant authorising the nominated undertaker to exercise the power of entry in relation to the land or building. 20(3) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2)(b), admission is refused if a request for admission is not granted within a reasonable period after being made.(4) Whereawarranthasbeenissuedinrelationtolandorabuildingundersub- paragraph (2), the nominated undertaker may not demand admission as ofright to the land or building unless— 25(a) in a case where a period of notice otherwise applies in relation to the exercise of the power in question, the required notice has been given (whether before or after the issue of the warrant) to the owners and occupiers of the land or building, and(b) in a case where no period of notice otherwise applies in relation to 30 the exercise of the power in question, at least 24 hours’ notice hasbeen given (whether before or after the issue of the warrant) to the owners and occupiers of the land or building.(5) Paragraph12(4)(powertotakevehicles,equipmentandotherpersonsontoland) applies to the exercise of a power of entry in reliance on a warrant 35 issued under sub-paragraph (2).(6) In this paragraph, “residential land” means so much of any land as consists of—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 2 — WorksPart 2 — Exercise of powers of entry etc103￼relation to which the power is exercised for any loss which they may suffer by reason of the exercise of the power.(2) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- paragraph (1), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determinedunder and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961. 5(3) Nothing in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) affects liability to pay compensation under—(a) section 6 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845, as incorporated into this Act,(b) section 10(2) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, as applied to the 10 acquisition of land under section 4(1), or(c) any other enactment,otherwise than for loss for which compensation is payable under sub- paragraph (1).(4) On application by a person who— 15(a) has incurred expenses in complying with a tree works notice underparagraph 7(2), or(b) has suffered any loss or damage in consequence of the carrying outof works required by such a notice,the county court must order the nominated undertaker to pay the person 20 such compensation in respect of the loss, damage or expenses as the courtthinks fit.
￼￼￼104High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions￼SCHEDULE 3 OVERHEAD LINE DIVERSIONS(2)Overhead line to be taken downSection 2(5)￼￼(1) Area(3)New overhead line to beprovided 5￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E3 (on Sheet No. 2-04), E1, E6, E7 and E8 (on Sheet No. 2-01) and E4 and E3 (on Sheet No. 2-02)London Borough of HillingdonTemporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E3 and E4(on Sheet No. 2-04) and E6 10 (on Sheet No. 2-01)Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E8 (on Sheet 15 No. 2-01), E5 and E3 (onSheet No. 2-02)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated onland within Act limits 20 between points E3 (on SheetNo. 2-04) and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-01)New permanent overheadelectric line to be provided 25 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E2, E3and E4 (on Sheet No. 2-01),E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 1-37), E5 (on Sheet No. 2-01) 30 and E1, E2 and E3 (on SheetNo. 2-02)Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limits 35 between points E1 (on SheetNo. 2-13) and E1, E2 and E4(on Sheet No. 2-10)Overhead electric linebetween points E3 (on Sheet 40 No. 2-13) and E5 (on SheetNo. 2-10) to be buriedunderground within ActlimitsNew permanent overhead 45 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E3(on Sheet No. 2-13) andbetween points E5 and E4 50 (on Sheet No. 2-10)￼County of Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers and County of Buckinghamshire,District of Chiltern,Parish of Chalfont St GilesOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 2- 13) and E3 and E4 (on Sheet No. 2-10)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions105￼￼￼(1) AreaCounty of BuckinghamshireDistrict of ChilternParish of Great MissendenDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WendoverDistrict of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover and District of Wycombe, Parish of Ellesborough(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be provided￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E2, E3 and E5 (on Sheet No. 2-25)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E2 (on Sheet No. 2-30) and E1 (on Sheet No. 2-31)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 2- 32)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E2 (on Sheet No. 2-32) and E1 (on Sheet No. 2-33)￼￼￼District of Aylesbury Vale Parishes of Great and Little Kimble cum Marsh and Stone with Bishoptstone and HartwellOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 (on Sheet No. 2-37) and E1 (on Sheet No. 2-39)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E2, E7 andE5 (on Sheet No. 2-25)New permanent overheadelectric line to be provided 10 on land within Act limitsbetween points E2, E4 andE5 (on Sheet No. 2-25)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 15 within Act limits betweenpoints E2, E3 and E4 (onSheet No. 2-30) and E2 andE1 (on Sheet No. 2-31)Overhead electric line to be 20 subsequently reinstated onland within Act limitsbetween points E2 (on SheetNo. 2-30) and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-31) 25Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E3 andE2 (on Sheet No. 2-32) 30Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstatedand raised on land withinAct limits between pointsE1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 2- 35 32)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated onland within Act limitsbetween points E2 (on Sheet 40 No. 2-32) and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-33)Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limits 45 between points E2, E3 andE4 (on Sheet No. 2-36) andE1 (on Sheet No. 2-39)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated on 50 land within Act limitsbetween points E1 (on SheetNo. 2-37) and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-39)
￼￼￼106High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be providedTemporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E2, E3and E4 (on Sheet No. 2-47)New permanent overheadelectric line to be provided 10 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E5 andE6 (on Sheet No. 2-47)New permanent overheadelectric line to be provided 15 on land within Act limitsbetween points E4 and E7(on Sheet No. 2-47)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 20 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E3(on Sheet No. 2-69) and E1(on Sheet No. 2-68)Temporary overhead 25 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E2 andE3 (on Sheet No. 2-68)Overhead electric line 30 between points E2 (on SheetNo. 2-69) and E4 (on SheetNo. 2-68) to be buriedunderground within Actlimits 35Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated onland within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E2(on Sheet No. 2-69) and 40 between points E4 and E3(on Sheet No. 2-68)￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E4 (on Sheet No. 2- 47)Parish of Quainton￼County of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of MixburyOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 (on Sheet No. 2-69) and E3 (on Sheet No. 2-68)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions107￼￼￼(1) AreaCounty of Buckinghamshire,District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Turweston and County of Oxfordshire, District of South Northamptonshire,Parish of Whitfield(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be provided￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1, E7, E3, E4, E5 and E6 (on Sheet No. 2-74), and E2 and E1 (on Sheet No. 2-72)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1, E2 and E3 (on Sheet No. 2-114)￼County of Warwickshire District of Warwick Parish of Burton GreenMetropolitan Borough of SolihullParish of BickenhillOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E4 (on Sheet No. 3- 007)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E5 and E7 (on Sheet No. 3- 007)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E2 andE3 (on Sheet No. 2-74)Temporary overhead 10 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween E6 (on Sheet No. 2-74) and E3 and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-72) 15New permanent overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E7, E8,E9 and E10 (on Sheet No. 2- 20 74) and E2 and E1 (on SheetNo. 2-72)Line to be buriedunderground within Actlimits 25Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedwithin Act limits betweenpoints E1, E2, E3 and E4 (on 30 Sheet No. 3-007)Electric line to besubsequently reinstated,partly overhead and partly underground, on land 35 within Act limits betweenpoints E1 and E4 (on SheetNo. 3-007)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 40 on land within Act limitsbetween points E5, E6 andE7 (on Sheet No. 3-007)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated on 45 land within Act limitsbetween points E5 and E7(on Sheet No. 3-007)￼
￼￼￼108High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be providedTemporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E2 andE3 (on Sheet No. 3-009)New permanent overhead 10 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E4, E5,E6 and E7Temporary overhead 15 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E5 and￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1, E4, E3 and E7 (on Sheet No. 3-009)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E2, E3 and E4 (on Sheet No. 3-11), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-12), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-14), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-16) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-19)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E4 and E5 (on Sheet No. 3- 14) and E5 and E6 (on Sheet No. 3-16)Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill and County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Little PackingtonMetropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parishes of Bickenhill and Chelmsley Wood and County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of ColeshillCounty of Warwickshire District of North WarwickshireParish of ColeshillParishes of Coleshill, Water Orton and CurdworthE3 (on Sheet No. 3-11)20￼New permanent overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E2 and E6(on Sheet No. 3-11), E3 and 25 E4 (on Sheet No. 3-12), E1and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-13),E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-15), E3 and E4 (on Sheet No.3-16) and E3 and E2 (on 30 Sheet No. 3-19)￼Line to be buried underground within Act limits35￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 21), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-22), E1, E2 and E3 (on Sheet No. 3-31), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-32), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-33) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 36)Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E4 40 (on Sheet No. 3-21), E3 andE4 (on Sheet No. 3-22) andE4 and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-31)45New permanent overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E3(on Sheet No. 3-21), E5 and 50 E6 (on Sheet No. 3-22), E3and E4 (on Sheet No. 3-33),E4, E5, E2 and E6 (on SheetNo. 3-31), E3 and E4 (onSheet No. 3-33), E1 and E2 55 (on Sheet No. 3-37) and E3and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-36)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions109￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of Curdworth(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be provided￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E3 and E4 (on Sheet No. 3- 37) and E4 and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-36)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E2 and E3 (on Sheet No. 3- 40) and E1, E2 and E3 (on Sheet No. 3-42)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 56)￼County of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettParish of HintsOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 57) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-60)Temporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E3 and E5(on Sheet No. 3-37) and E12and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-36)New permanent overhead 10 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E3 and E6(on Sheet No. 3-37) and E7and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-36) 15Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E4(on Sheet No. 3-40), E4, E5 20 and E6 (on Sheet No. 3-42)and E1 and E2 (on SheetNo. 3-43).Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstated on 25 land within Act limitsbetween points E2 and E3(Sheet No. 3-40) and E1, E2and E3 (on Sheet No. 3-42)Temporary overhead 30 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E3 andE2 (on Sheet No. 3-56)Overhead electric line to be 35 subsequently reinstated onland within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E2(on Sheet No. 3-56)Temporary overhead 40 electric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E1, E3 andE4 (on Sheet No. 3-57) andE3 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 45 60)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstatedbetween points E1 and E2(on Sheet No. 3-57) and E1 50 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-60)￼
￼￼￼110High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 3 — Overhead line diversions￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Overhead line to be taken down(3)New overhead line to be providedTemporary overheadelectric line to be provided 5 on land within Act limitsbetween points E1 and E3(on Sheet No. 3-66) and E3,E4 and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-69) 10Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E6 and E7(on Sheet No. 3-69) and E3, 15 E4 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-70)New permanent overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limits 20 between points E1 and E2(on Sheet No. 3-66), E1, E8,E5, E9, E6 and E10 (on SheetNo. 3-69) and E5, E6 and E2(on Sheet No. 3-70) 25Temporary overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limitsbetween points E3, E5, E6and E7 (on Sheet No. 3-77) 30 and E3 and E2 (on SheetNo. 3-79)Overhead electric line to be subsequently reinstatedbetween points E3 and E4 35 (on Sheet No. 3-77) and E1and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-79)Line to be buriedunderground within Actlimits 40New permanent overheadelectric line to be providedon land within Act limits 45 between points E1, E2 andE3 (on Sheet No. 3-101) andE4 and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-102)￼Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 66), E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-69) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-70)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E3 and E4 (on Sheet No. 3- 77) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-79)Overhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3- 75) and E1 and E2 (on Sheet No. 3-77)Parishes of Fradley and Streethay and Whittington￼Parish of King’s Bromley￼City of BirminghamOverhead electric line to be taken down between points E1 (on Sheet No. 3-101) and E5 (on Sheet No. 3-102)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 1 — Highway access111Section 35￼1 (1)SCHEDULE 4 HIGHWAYS PART 1 HIGHWAY ACCESSThe nominated undertaker may, for Phase One purposes—(a) form and lay out means of access, and(b) improve existing means of access,at any place within the Act limits.(2) In the case of works at a place shown on the deposited plans which requirethe opening of an access on to, or the alteration of, a highway used by 10 vehicular traffic, the power under sub-paragraph (1) is exercisable on givingat least 28 days’ notice to the highway authority.(3) Workswhicharethesubjectofanoticeundersub-paragraph(2)maynotbe carried out at the place shown on the deposited plans if, within 28 days ofthe giving of the notice, the highway authority objects to the works being 15 carried out there by giving the nominated undertaker notice to that effect.(4) The only ground on which the highway authority may object under sub- paragraph (3) is that works under sub-paragraph (1) should be carried out instead at another place within the Act limits to prevent or reduce—(a) injury to local amenity, or 20(b) prejudicial effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in thelocal area,and are reasonably capable of being carried out there.(5) If, in the case of works under sub-paragraph (1) at a place shown on the deposited plans, the works require the opening of an access on to, or the 25 alteration of, a highway used by vehicular traffic, they must be carried outin accordance with plans and specifications approved by the highway authority at the request of the nominated undertaker.(6) The only ground on which the highway authority may refuse to approveplans or specifications for the purposes of sub-paragraph (5) is that they 30 ought to be modified to prevent or reduce—(a) injury to local amenity, or(b) prejudicial effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in thelocal area,and are reasonably capable of being so modified. 35(7) Works under sub-paragraph (1) may only be carried out at a place not shown on the deposited plans if the highway authority consents to the siting of the works; and such consent is not to be unreasonably withheld.(8) Worksundersub-paragraph(1)ataplacenotshownonthedepositedplansmust be carried out in accordance with plans and specifications approved by 40 the highway authority at the request of the nominated undertaker; and such approval is not to be unreasonably withheld.(9) In considering whether to give consent for the purposes of sub-paragraph (7), or approval for the purposes of sub-paragraph (8), in a case where the
￼￼￼112High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 1 — Highway access￼works require the opening of an access on to, or the alteration of, a highway used by vehicular traffic, the highway authority must have regard in particular to effects on road safety and on the free flow of traffic in the local area.(10) If, on application by the nominated undertaker for the approval of plans or 5 specifications under sub-paragraph (5) or (8), the highway authority fails tonotify the nominated undertaker of its decision on the application before theend of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was made,it is to be treated as having approved the plans or specifications as submitted. 10(11) Ifahighwayauthoritywhichreceivesanapplicationforconsentundersub- paragraph (7) fails to notify the applicant of its decision on the application before the end of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was made, it is to be treated as having granted it.(12) Where an objection under sub-paragraph (3) leads to the carrying out of 15 works under sub-paragraph (1) at a place not shown on the deposited plans, sub-paragraphs (5), (7) and (8) have effect in relation to the works as if theplace were shown on the deposited plans.(13) Any dispute with a highway authority under this paragraph must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be 20 determined by the Secretary of State.PART 2 INTERFERENCE WITH HIGHWAYS2 (1) The nominated undertaker may, for the purposes of or in connection with 25 the construction of the works authorised by this Act, stop up each highwayor part of highway specified in table 1 or 2 in Part 4 of this Schedule.(2) No highway or part of a highway specified in columns (1) and (2) of table 1may be stopped up under this paragraph unless all of the land which abutson it falls within one or more of the following categories, namely— 30(a) land to which there is no right of access directly from the highway or part to be stopped up,(b) land to which there is reasonably convenient access otherwise than directly from the highway or part to be stopped up,(c) land the owners and occupiers of which have agreed to the stopping 35 up of the highway or part, and(d) land which is in the possession of the Secretary of State.(3) No highway or part of a highway specified in columns (1) and (2) of table 2may be stopped up under this paragraph if a new highway is specified in relation to it in column (3) of that table, by reference to the letters and 40 numbers shown on the deposited plans or by reference to the scheduled works, until—(a) where the new highway is provided in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act—(i) the date of practical completion, or 45(ii) if later, the date on which it is first open for public use, andStopping-up
￼￼￼3 (1)The nominated undertaker may, for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the works authorised by this Act, stop up any bridleway or footpath, or part of a bridleway or footpath, which is—(a) within the Act limits, and 10(b) not specified in columns (1) and (2) of either table 1 or 2.113(4) Where a new highway specified in column (3) of table 2 is provided in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, the date of practical completionof the highway, or the date on which it is first open for public use, is to betaken for the purposes of sub-paragraph (3) to be what it is taken to be for 5 the purposes of paragraph 14(2).High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 2 — Interference with highways￼(b) where it is not, the date on which it is first open for public use.(2) The power under sub-paragraph (1) may not be exercised unless the proposed stopping up has been confirmed by the appropriate Ministers on application by the nominated undertaker.(3) The appropriate Ministers must grant an application under sub-paragraph 15 (2) if, but only if, they are satisfied—(a) that an alternative bridleway or footpath has been provided,(b) that an alternative bridleway or footpath will be provided before theproposed stopping up takes place, or(c) that the provision of an alternative bridleway or footpath is not 20required.(4) WheretheappropriateMinistersgrantanapplicationundersub-paragraph (2), they must notify the nominated undertaker of the basis on which the application is granted.(5) Where an application under sub-paragraph (2) is granted on the basis that 25 an alternative bridleway or footpath will be provided, the proposed stopping up may not take place until the alternative has been provided.(6) Before making an application under sub-paragraph (2), the nominated undertaker must publish in at least one local newspaper circulating in the relevant area a notice— 30(a) specifying—(i) the bridleway or footpath, or part, proposed to be stoppedup,(ii) what, if any, alternative bridleway or footpath is proposed,and 35(iii) if no alternative is proposed, the reasons why,(b) specifying a place in the relevant area where a map or plan illustrating the proposals may be inspected by any person free ofcharge at all reasonable hours during a period of 28 days from thedate of the publication of the notice (“the publication date”), 40(c) stating that any person may within that period make representations about confirmation under sub-paragraph (2) of the proposed stopping up, and(d) specifying the manner in which such representations may be made.(7) Not later than the publication date, the nominated undertaker must— 45(a) give a copy of the notice, together with any map or plan to which it refers, to every local authority whose area includes any of the land
￼￼￼114High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 2 — Interference with highwayson which the bridleway or footpath, or part, proposed to be stoppedup is situated, and(b) cause a copy of the notice to be displayed in a prominent position atthe ends of the bridleway or footpath, or part, proposed to be stopped up. 5￼(8) Before granting an application under sub-paragraph (2), the appropriate Ministers must consider any representations made to them in accordance with the nominated undertaker’s notice which have not been withdrawn.(9) Unlesstheydirectotherwise,theappropriateMinisters’functionsinrelationto an application under sub-paragraph (2) must, instead of being carried out 10 by them, be carried out by a person appointed by them for the purpose.(10) Insub-paragraph(6),referencestotherelevantareaaretotheareainwhich the bridleway or footpath, or part, proposed to be stopped up is situated.(11) In sub-paragraph (7)(a), “local authority” means—(a) the council of a county, district, parish or London borough, 15(b) the London Fire and Emergency Planning Authority,(c) a joint authority established by Part 4 of the Local Government Act 1985,(d) a housing action trust established under Part 3 of the Housing Act1988, and 20(e) the parish meeting of a rural parish not having a separate parish council.(12) In this paragraph, references to the appropriate Ministers are to the Secretary of State for Transport and the Secretary of State for Environment,Food and Rural Affairs and, in relation to the carrying out of any functions, 25 are to those Ministers acting jointly.4 (1)On a highway or part of a highway being stopped up under paragraph 2 or 3—(a) all rights of way over or along it are extinguished, and(b) the Secretary of State may appropriate and use, without making any 30payment, so much of the site of it as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the Secretary of State.(2) Thenominatedundertakermustcompensateanypersonwhosufferslossby the extinction under this paragraph of a private right of way.(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- 35 paragraph (2), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determinedunder and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.(4) The Secretary of State is not entitled to any mines or minerals under landwhich the Secretary of State is entitled to appropriate and use under sub- paragraph (1)(b), with the exception of minerals necessarily extracted or 40 used in the construction of the undertaking which the nominated undertaker is authorised to carry on by this Act.(5) Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (regulation of the working of mines or minerals underlying an authorised undertaking) haseffect in relation to the working of any mines or minerals underlying land 45 which the Secretary of State is entitled to appropriate and use under sub- paragraph (1)(b) as if—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 2 — Interference with highways115￼(a) references to the undertaking were to the undertaking which the nominated undertaker is authorised to carry on by this Act,(b) in paragraphs 3 to 5 and 7 to 9, references to the acquiring authority were to the nominated undertaker, and(c) in paragraph 6, the first reference to the acquiring authority were to 5 the nominated undertaker.Permanent obstruction5 (1) Thepowersundersection2(1),(3)and(5)maybeexercisedinsuchawayasto obstruct the highway, but only with the consent of the highway authority,such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. 10(2) Any dispute with a highway authority under sub-paragraph (1) must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State.(3) Ifahighwayauthoritywhichreceivesanapplicationforconsentundersub- paragraph (1) fails to notify the applicant of its decision on the application 15 before the end of 28 days beginning with the date on which the applicationwas made, it is to be treated as having granted it.Temporary interference6 (1)For the purposes of the works authorised by this Act, the nominated undertaker may— 20(a) temporarily stop up or alter or divert any highway or part of a highway;(b) for any reasonable time divert traffic from, and prevent persons passing along, any highway or part of a highway;(c) break up or interfere with any highway or part of a highway 25 (including any sewer, drain or tunnel in it);(d) temporarily remove any street furniture in or beside a highway.(2) The nominated undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestriansgoing to or from premises abutting on a highway affected by the exercise ofthe powers under sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (c) if there would otherwise be no 30 such access.(3) Before exercising the powers under sub-paragraph (1) in relation to a highway, and to an extent, specified in table 3 in Part 4 of this Schedule, the nominated undertaker must consult the relevant authority.(4) The purpose of consultation under sub-paragraph (3) is to ensure public 35 safety and, so far as reasonably practicable, to reduce public inconvenience.(5) Before exercising the powers under sub-paragraph (1) in relation to a highway, or to an extent, not specified in table 3, the nominated undertaker must obtain the consent in writing of the relevant authority.(6) Consent under sub-paragraph (5) must not be unreasonably withheld, but 40 may be given subject to such conditions as the relevant authority may reasonably require in the interest of public safety or convenience.(7) If a relevant authority which receives an application for consent under sub- paragraph (5) fails to notify the applicant of its decision on the application
￼￼￼116High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 2 — Interference with highways￼before the end of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was made, it is to be treated as having granted the application.(8) In the case of the powers in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (c), sub-paragraph (7) has effect in relation to an application for consent which relates to—(a) a GLA side road (within the meaning of the Road Traffic Regulation 5 Act 1984), or(b) a road which is designated under section 60(1) or 61(1) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (roads in Greater London which are strategic roads),as if for “28” there were substituted “42”. 10(9) Any dispute with a relevant authority about consent under sub-paragraph (5) must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State.(10) There is no need to reinstate a highway or part of a highway in relation towhich any of the powers under sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (c) has been 15 exercised where the exercise of the power comes to an end on the exercise,in relation to the highway or part, of the power under paragraph 2(1) or 3(1).(11) In this paragraph—“relevant authority” means—(a) the highway authority, in the case of the powers in sub- 20 paragraph (1)(a) to (c);(b) the owner of the street furniture, in the case of the power in sub-paragraph (1)(d);“street furniture” includes traffic signs, street lighting and bus shelters.Street works 257 (1) Thenominatedundertakermay,forthepurposesoftheworksauthorisedby this Act, enter upon any highway within the Act limits and—(a) place, maintain or alter, or change the position of, apparatus in it,(b) remove apparatus from it, and(c) execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works 30 authorised by paragraph (a) or (b).(2) Inthisparagraph,“apparatus”hasthesamemeaningasinPart3oftheNew Roads and Street Works Act 1991.8 (1) WorksexecutedunderthisActinrelationtoahighwaywhichconsistsofor includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 of the New 35 Roads and Street Works Act 1991 (street works) as major transport worksif—(a) they are of a description mentioned in section 86(3)(a), (c) to (e), (g)or (h) of that Act (which defines what highway authority works aremajor highway works), or 40(b) they are works which, had they been executed under the powers ofthe highway authority, might have been carried out in exercise of the powers under section 64 (dual carriageways and roundabouts) or184 (vehicle crossings over footways and verges) of the HighwaysAct 1980. 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 2 — Interference with highways117￼(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to works executed under powers delegated to a highway authority by an agreement under paragraph 12(2) of this Schedule (construction delegation agreements).Working sites in highways9 Any highway or part of a highway which is stopped up under paragraph 56(1)(a) may be used as a working site if it is within the Act limits. PART 3CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF HIGHWAYSConstruction and alteration10 (1)Where under this Act the nominated undertaker— 10(a) constructs a new highway, or(b) alters a highway, otherwise than by carrying out street works withinthe meaning of Part 3 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991,the construction or alteration must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority. 1511 (1)Sub-paragraph (2) applies where under this Act the nominated 30 undertaker—(a) constructs a new highway which is constituted by or comprises a carriageway, or(b) realigns a highway which is constituted by or comprises a carriageway. 35(2) Where work mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of a highway authority, it must certify that fact in writing to the nominated undertaker.(3) If the nominated undertaker requests a highway authority to issue a certificate under sub-paragraph (2) and the highway authority does not 20 before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was made—(a) issue a certificate under that sub-paragraph, or(b) notify the nominated undertaker of its decision to refuse to issuesuch a certificate, 25it is to be treated as having issued such a certificate at the end of that period.(4) Any dispute with a highway authority under this paragraph must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State.(2) The construction or realignment must be carried out in accordance with plans, sections and specifications approved by the highway authority at the request of the nominated undertaker; and such approval is not to be unreasonably withheld.(3) Any dispute with a highway authority under sub-paragraph (2) must be 40 referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State.
￼￼￼118High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 3 — Construction and maintenance of highways￼12 (1)Where under this Act the nominated undertaker is authorised to stop up or interfere with an existing highway or part of an existing highway, it mayenter into an agreement with the controllers of the highway concerning the construction (or contribution towards the expenses of construction) of— 10(a) any new highway to be provided in substitution,(b) any alteration of the existing highway, and(c) any related matters.13 (1)This paragraph applies in relation to a work authorised by this Act which appears to the Secretary of State to constitute—(a) the construction of an extension to a trunk road or special road, or 30(b) the realignment of a trunk road or special road.(4) If, on application by the nominated undertaker for the approval of plans, sections or specifications under sub-paragraph (2), the highway authorityfails to notify the nominated undertaker of its decision on the applicationbefore the end of 28 days beginning with the date on which the applicationwas made, it is to be treated as having approved the plans, sections or 5 specifications as submitted.(2) Wherethenominatedundertakerhasenteredintoanagreementundersub- paragraph (1) with the controllers of an existing highway, the nominated 15 undertaker may, by agreement with them, delegate to them the power of constructing—(a) any new highway to be provided in substitution, or(b) any alteration of the existing highway,including any bridge over any railway. 20(3) Worksexecutedbythecontrollersofanexistinghighwayunderadelegation agreement under sub-paragraph (2) which could have been carried out bythem under section 64 or 184 of the Highways Act 1980 are to be treated forthe purposes of section 86(3) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 as having been so carried out by them. 25(4) References in this paragraph to the controllers of a highway are to the persons having the charge, management or control of it.(2) The Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument provide that the highway comprising the extension or realignment is to become a trunk road or special road (or both) as from a date—(a) specified in the order, or 35(b) if the order so provides, specified in an instrument in writing afterthe making of the order.(3) Where, under an order under this paragraph, a highway becomes a special road—(a) the Secretary of State is the special road authority for the highway, 40(b) the highway is to be regarded as provided by the Secretary of State under a scheme under section 16 of the Highways Act 1980 made on the day the order is made, and(c) the highway is to be regarded as so provided for the use of traffic ofsuch classes referred to in Schedule 4 to that Act as may be provided 45 for in the order (and the order may make different provision for different parts of the highway).
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 3 — Construction and maintenance of highways119￼(4) Provision under sub-paragraph (3)(c) may be expressed by reference to classes of traffic which are at any time authorised under a scheme under section 16 of the Highways Act 1980 in relation to the road of which the highway is a realignment or extension.Maintenance 514 (1)Sub-paragraph (2) applies where under this Act the nominated undertaker—(a) constructs a new highway, or(b) alters a highway, otherwise than by carrying out street works withinthe meaning of Part 3 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991. 10(2) The new or altered highway must be maintained by and at the expense ofthe nominated undertaker for a period of 12 months from—(a) the date of practical completion, or(b) if later, the date on which it is first open for public use;and after the end of that period must be maintained by and at the expense of 15 the highway authority.(3) Sub-paragraph (2) is subject to—(a) any agreement between the nominated undertaker and the highwayauthority as to alternative arrangements relating to the maintenanceof the highway, and 20(b) sub-paragraph (4), in respect of a period for which the nominatedundertaker is under a duty to maintain the highway.(4) Unlessotherwiseagreedbetweenthehighwayauthorityandthenominated undertaker, the highway authority must ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, that safe passage along the new or altered highway is not 25 endangered by snow or ice.(5) Where the highway authority is satisfied that a highway mentioned in sub- paragraph (2) is practically complete or is open for public use, it must, at the request of the nominated undertaker, certify to it in writing the date of practical completion of the highway or, as the case may be, the date on which 30 it was first open for public use.(6) If the highway authority refuses a request to issue a certificate under sub- paragraph (5), or if the nominated undertaker disputes the date given in a certificate under that sub-paragraph, the matter must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the 35 Secretary of State.(7) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), the date of practical completion of a highway, or the date on which it is first open for public use, is to be taken to be—(a) where the date has been determined under sub-paragraph (6), the 40 date so determined, and(b) where it has not, the date certified under sub-paragraph (5).(8) Sub-paragraph (2) does not have effect to impose any obligation in relation to—(a) the structure of any bridge carrying a highway over any railway of 45 the nominated undertaker, or
￼￼￼120151617(9)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 3 — Construction and maintenance of highways(b) the structure of any tunnel carrying a highway under any such railway.Nothing in this paragraph affects the operation of section 87 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991.Where the nominated undertaker is responsible for maintaining a bridge 5 carrying either of the following over a railway—(a) a new highway constructed under this Act, or(b) a highway altered under this Act,the nominated undertaker may, by agreement with the persons having thecharge, management or control of the highway, delegate to them the 10 function of maintaining the bridge.Section 58(1) and (2) of the Highways Act 1980 (special defence in action against highway authority for damages for non-repair of highway) appliesto an action against the nominated undertaker in respect of damage resulting from its failure to maintain a highway under paragraph 14(2) or 15 14(3)(a) as it applies to an action against a highway authority as mentionedin section 58(1) of that Act (and references in section 58(1) and (2) to the highway authority are to be read accordingly).Notwithstanding anything in section 46 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845, as incorporated with this Act, the nominated 20 undertaker is not liable to maintain the surface of any highway under orover which the scheduled works are constructed, or the immediate approaches to any such highway.￼Bridges carrying highways18 Each of sections 116 and 117 of the Transport Act 1968 (duties as respects 25 bridges carrying highways over railways) has effect as if the nominated undertaker were one of the boards mentioned in the section in question.￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of CamdenTABLE 1 30 (2)Highway or part to be stopped upGordon Street within Act limitsEuston Square between points P7 and P8Melton Street within Act limits 35 Stephenson Way between points P5 and P6Euston Street between points P3 and P4Drummond Street between points P1 and P2Cardington StreetPART 4TABLES RELATING TO PART 2 OF SCHEDULE￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(1) Area121￼￼(2)Highway or part to be stopped upVarndell Street between points P9 and P10 Harrington Street between points P1 and P2￼Surfaced path (not on definitive map) between points P2 5 and P3Paths (not on definitive map) in Euston Square GardensPaths (not on definitive map) in St. James’ GardensCamley Street, carriageway only, between points P5 andP6 10￼London Borough of EalingCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke MandevilleParish of QuaintonParish of Calvert GreenParish of TwyfordParish of Chipping Warden and EdgcoteBethune Road between points P1 and P2Old Risborough Road between points P28 and P29Marsh Lane between points P30 and P31Station Road between points P9 and P10Footpath SCL/17/1 between points P6 and P11Footpath TWY/4/1 between points P5 and P615￼￼￼￼￼￼County of Warwickshire District of WarwickshireParish of ColeshillParishes of Coleshill Water OrtonParish of Curdworth Parish of Lea MarstonCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of HintsNorthandCulworth Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 20 2/111Footpath M58 between points P7 and P8 (on Sheet No. 3- 18) and P5 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-20)Gilson Drive between points P4 and P3 (on Sheet No. 3- 20) and P4 and P3 (on Sheet No. 3-23)Coleshill Road between points P1 and P2Footpath M13 between points P3, P4 and P5 30 Footpath M22 between points P4 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-46) and between points P1, P2 and P3 (on Sheet No. 3-51) Footpath Hints 0.377 between points P2 and P635Shaw Lane between points P5 and P6Footpath M114 within Act limits (on Sheet No. 3-006)Old Station Road between points P4 and P3 4025￼￼￼￼￼Parish of King’s Bromley￼Metropolitan Borough SolihullParish of Hampton-in-Ardenof￼
￼￼￼122High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(2)Highway or part to be stopped upMiddle Bickenhill Lane between points P3 (on Sheet No. 3-006) and P5 (on Sheet No. 3-007)Common Lane within Act limits 5 Inkerman Street within Act limitsNorthumberland Street between points P1 and P2Viaduct Street between points P1 and P3St James’ Place between points P4 and P5Lawford Close within Act limits 10 Andover Street between points P1 and P2Banbury Street within Act limitsFazeley Street between points P3 and P4Park Street between points P5 and P6Freeman StreetMiles Druce Way￼￼(1) Area￼Parish of Bickenhill City of Birmingham￼15￼￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of CamdenTABLE 2(2)Highway or part to be stopped upEuston Station Access RoadCobourg StreetHampstead Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/11Granby TerraceLidlington Place within Act limitsMornington Crescent within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/14Juniper CrescentFootpath between points P1, P1A, P1B and P2 (on Sheet No. 1-38)(3)New highway to be provided inWork No. 1/5Work No. 1/7 Work No. 1/11Work No. 1/13 Work No. 1/1425substitution 20￼Work No. 1/14 30 Work No. 1/30Footpath between point P1,Work No. 1/25 and point P2 35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule123(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P3,P7 and P8, existing path and 5 point P4Works Nos. 1/40 and 1/4510Work No. 1/45Work No. 1/45Work No. 1/45Work No. 1/45 20 Footpath between points P1and P3, Work No. 1/62 andpoints P4 and P2 25Footpath between points P1, P3 and P2Footpath between points P2,P4 and P5 (on Sheet No. 1-35), P2 (on Sheet No. 1-36), 30 Work No. 1/67 and point P1(on Sheet No. 1-36)￼￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Ealing(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath between points P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 1-38)Old Oak Common Lane within the limits of deviation of Works Nos. 1/ 40 and 1/45Victoria Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/45Old Oak Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/45Atlas Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/ 45Wales Farm Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/45￼London Borough of HillingdonFootpath U81 between points P1 and P2Footpath U45 between points P1 and P2Footpath U46 between points P2 (on Sheet No. 1- 35) and P1 (on Sheet No. 1- 36)Breakspear Road South within the limits of deviation of Work No. 1/67Bridleway U42 between points P3 and P4Harvil Road between points P1 (on Sheet No. 1-37) and P1 (on Sheet No. 1-49) and between points P2 (on Sheet No. 1-37) and P5 (on Sheet No. 2-01)Footpath U34 between points P1 and P2Work No. 1/6735Works Nos. 1/76, 1/77and 2/1C 40Footpath between point P1 45 (on Sheet No. 2-01), WorksNos. 2/1C and 1/76 andpoints P3 (on Sheet No. 1-37)and P3 and P2 (on Sheet No.2-01) 50Bridleway between point P3, Works Nos. 1/67 and 1/68 and point P415￼
￼￼￼124High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/2￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Dews Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 2Footpath not on the definitive map between Footpath U34 and Harvil Road between points P4 and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-01) and between points P1 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-04)Shire Lane and bridleway Den/3/1/ Ricks 002 between points P2 and P5Tilehouse Lane between points P1 (on Sheet No. 2- 08) and P6 (on Sheet No. 2- 10)Bridleway Ricks 004 between points P1 and P2Chalfont Lane between points P7 and P8Shire Lane/Bridleway CSP/44/1/Ricks 002 between points P3 and P5 and between points P9 and P10Footpath CSP/16/1 between points P1 and P2Bottom House Farm Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/11Footway/cycle track between points P1 and P2Footpath LMI/17/2 between points P1 and P2County of Buckinghamshire, District of South Bucks, Parish of Denham and County of Hertfordshire, District of Three RiversCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversCounty of Hertfordshire, District of Three Rivers and County of Buckinghamshire, District of Chiltern, Parish of Chalfont St PeterCounty of Buckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of Chalfont St PeterParishes of Chalfont St Giles and AmershamParish of Amersham Parish of Little MissendenFootpath between points P4,P7 and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-01) and between point P1(on Sheet No. 2-04) 10 , Work No. 2/2A (part) andpoints P2 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-04)Bridleway between points 15 P2, P3, P4 and P520Work No. 2/7Bridleway between point P1, 25 Works Nos. 2/7B, 2/7 (part)and 2/7A and point P2Work No. 2/8Bridleway between points 30 P3, P4 and P5 and betweenpoints P9 and P105￼￼￼￼Footpath between point P2, Work No. 2/10, point P3, Shire Lane and point P1Work No. 2/11Work No. 2/123540￼￼￼Footpath between point P1,Works Nos. 2/13 (part) and 45 2/13A and point P2￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule125(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P3and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-22), 5 Works Nos. 2/13A and 2/13(part), Footpath GMI/26/1,points P18, P19 and P3 (onSheet No. 2-24), Work No.2/15 (part) and point P2 (on 10 Sheet No. 2-24)Footpath between point P2(on Sheet No. 2-24), WorkNo. 2/15 (part), points P3,P19 and P18 (on Sheet No. 2- 15 24), Footpath GMI/26/1,Hyde Heath Road, point P1(on Sheet No. 2-22), WorksNos. 2/13 (part) and 2/13Aand points P2 and P3 (on 20 Sheet No. 2-22)Footpath between point P2, Work No. 2/15 (part) and points P3, P19 and P18Footpath between point P2, 25 Work No. 2/15 (part) andpoint P4Work No. 2/16Footpath between point P3, 30 Work No. 2/15 and point P5Footpath between points P8 and P9Footpath between pointsP17, P10 and P12, Work No. 35 2/16 (part), points P8, P13and P14 and Work No. 2/17(part)Footpath between points P9and P8, Work No. 2/16 40 (part) and points P12 andP10Footpath between pointsP10 and P12, Work No. 2/16(part) and points P8, P13 and 45 P14￼￼￼(1) AreaParishes of Little Missenden and Great Missenden(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath LMI/21/1 between points P3 (on Sheet No. 2-22) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-24)Footpath GMI/23/7 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-24)￼Parish of Great MissendenFootpath GMI/26/1 between points P2 and P18Footpath GMI/23/6 between points P2 and P4Hyde Lane between points P21 and P22Footpath GMI/27/1 between points P2 and P5Footpath GMI/33/1 between points P6 and P7Footpath GMI/33/2 between points P11 and P17Footpath GMI/33/3 between points P7 and P11Footpath GMI/33/4 between points P11 and P15Footpath GMI/33/5 between points P7 and P16Kings Lane within Act limitsFootpath between points P9 and P16Work No. 2/17A50
￼￼￼126High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionRoad between point P23,Works Nos. 2/17 and 2/17B 5 and points T3 and P24Work No. 2/18AFootpath between points P1 10 and P5, Work No. 2/18(part) and points P6 and P2Work No. 2/18Footpath between points P1, 15 P5 and P3, Work No. 2/19(part) and points P4, P2 andP8￼Chesham Road between points P23 and P24Frith Hill within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 18AFootpath GMI/13/3 between points P1 and P2Footpath GMI/12/1 between points P3 and P4Footpath GMI/2/1 between points P1 and P8Leather Lane between points P6 and P7Footpath TLE/2/2 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/22Footpath TLE/3/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/23Bowood Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/23.￼Parish of The LeeDistrict of Chiltern, Parish of The Lee and District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of WendoverDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WendoverFootpath WEN/38/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/22Footpath WEN/37/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/23Footpath WEN/39/2 between points P1 and P2Footpath WEN/40/1 between points P4 and P2Footpath WEN/39/1 between points P5 and P2Rocky Lane between points P6 (on Sheet No. 2-29) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-30)Work No. 2/20 Work No. 2/22Work No. 2/23 Work No. 2/23Work No. 2/22Work No. 2/23Footpath between point P1, Work No. 2/23B (part) and point P320253035￼￼Footpath between points P4 40 and P3Footpath between point P5, Work No. 2/23B (part) and point P3Road between point P6 (on 45 Sheet No. 2-29), Work No.2/24 and point P1 (on SheetNo. 2-30)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule127￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/26Road between point P1, Work No. 2/29A and point P4￼Small Dean Lane between points P2 and P3Bacombe Lane between points P1 and P4Bridleway WEN/14/3 between points P1 and P2Bridleway WEN/14/4 between points P2 and P3Bridleway WEN/14/5 between points P3 and P4Footpath WEN/13A/1 between points P2 and P5Ellesborough Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/30Footpath WEN/11/1 between points P6 and P7Footpath WEN/11/2 between points P7 and P8Footpath WEN/6/3 between points P7 and P9Footpath WEN/6/2 between points P7 and P12Footpath WEN/55/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/33Nash Lee Lane within Act limitsNash Lee Road between points P7 (on Sheet No. 2- 32) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2- 33)Bridleway between point P1,Work No. 2/29A (part) and 10 point P2Bridleway between point P2, Work No. 2/29A (part) and point P3Bridleway between point P3, 15 Work No. 2/29A (part) andpoint P4Footpath between points P2 and P5Work No. 2/30 20 Footpath between points P6,P16, P13 and P7Footpath between points P7 25 and P8Footpath between points P10, P11 and P9Footpath between pointsP7, P13, P16 and P12 305￼District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover and District of Wycombe, Parish of EllesboroughDistrict of Wycombe Parish of EllesboroughWork No. 2/33 Work No. 2/34AWork No. 2/343540￼Footpath ELL/25/1 between points P1 and P2Footpath ELL/2/1 within Act limitsFootpath between points P1,P3, P4 and P5, Works Nos.2/34 (part) and 2/34A andpoint P6 45Footpath between points P9 and P10
￼￼￼128High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upFootpath ELL/20/1 between points P11 and P4Footpath SMA/5/2 between points P5 and P6Footpath SMA/5A/1 between points P7 and P8Footpath SMA/5/1 between points P9 and P10 (on Sheet No. 2-33)A4010 Risborough Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/36 and between points P26 and P27 (on Sheet No. 2-34)Footpath SMA/8/2 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/8/3 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/13A/2 between points P13 and P14 and between points P15 and P26Footpath SMA/9/1 between points P17 and P13(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P7and P8 5Footpath between points P16, P18 and P19, Work No. 2/38 (part) and point P20Footpath between pointsP25 (on Sheet No. 2-34) and 10 P1 (on Sheet No. 2-36)Footpath between point P11,Work No. 2/35, point P3,footpath SMA/6/1 andpoint P4 15Footpath between points P5 and P6Footpath between points P7 and P8Footpath between points P9 20 (on Sheet No. 2-33) and P1,P2 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-34), Work No. 2/37, pointsP4, P5 and P6 (on Sheet No.2-34) and P10 (on Sheet No. 25 2-33)Road between point P12 (onSheet No. 2-33), Work No.2/36, point P1 (on Sheet No.2-38), Lower Road, A4010 30 Risborough Road and pointP27 (on Sheet No. 2-34). Anew cycle track to beprovided between point P3(on Sheet No. 2-34), Work 35 No. 2/37 and point P4 (onSheet No. 2-34)Footpath between pointsP11 and P12, Work No. 2/38(part), points P13 and P14, 40 footpath SMA/13A/2 andpoint P15Footpath between points P15 and P27Footpath between points 45 P13 and P14 and betweenpoints P15 and P26Footpath between point P13,Work No. 2/38 (part) and 50 point P20￼Footpath ELL/8/1 within Act limitsFootpath ELL/1/1 between points P16 and P17Footpath GLK/31/1 within Act limits￼Parish of Little Kimble cum MarshDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke Mandeville￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule129(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between pointsP13 and P21 5Footpath between points P13 and P22Footpath between point P13,Work No. 2/38 (part) andpoint P23 10Footpath between points P24 and P23Footpath between points P2 and P3Footpath between points P3, 15 P4, P5 and P6, Works Nos.2/36 and 2/36A and pointP7Footpath between points P8,P9 and P10 and between 20 points P11 and P12Footpath between pointsP12, P13 and P14, Work No.2/43 (part) and point P15 25Footpath between point P15, Work No. 2/43 and point P17Footpath between pointsP15 and P16 30Footpath between point P17, Work No. 2/43 and point P18Footpath between points 35 P19 and P20Footpath between points P1 and P2Bridleway between pointP21, Work No. 2/44 and 40 points P22 and P23￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath SMA/9/2 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/10/1 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/15A/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/38Footpath SMA/15/1 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/11/1 within Act limitsFootpath SMA/11/2 between points P3 and P7Footpath SMA/16/3 between points P8 and P10 and between points P11 and P12Footpath SMA/16/2 between points P12 and P15Footpath SMA/16/1 between points P15 and P17Footpath SBH/17A/1 between points P15 and P16Footpath SBH/28/2 between points P17 and P18Footpath SBH/17/3 between points P19 and P20￼Parishes of Stoke Mandeville and Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellParish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellFootpath SBH/29/1 within Act limitsBridleway SBH/19/7 between points P21 and P23Footpath SBH/27/1 between points P1 and P2Footpath SBH/34/1 between points P3 and P4A418 Oxford Road between points P5 and P6￼Work No. 2/45 Work No. 2/47 Work No. 2/4845
￼￼￼130High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/51A Work No. 2/50￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath SBH/3/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/51AFootpath SBH/32/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/50Bridleway SBH/2/4 between points P3, P2 and P1Bridleway FMA/1/1 between points P2 and P1Footpath FMA/2/1 between points P7 (on Sheet No. 2-42) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-43)Footpath WAD/6/4 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-43)A41 Bicester Road and Aylesbury Road between points P3 and P4￼Parishes of Fleet Marston and WaddesdonBridleway between point P3, 10 Work No. 2/51A (part),point P2, Work No. 2/51and point P1Bridleway between pointsP2 and P3, Work No. 2/54 15 and points P6 and P1Footpath between points P7and P4 (on Sheet No. 2-42),Work No. 2/54 and pointsP5 (on Sheet No. 2-42) and 20 P2 (on Sheet No. 2-43)Footpath between points P7and P4 (on Sheet No. 2-42),Work No. 2/54 and pointsP5 (on Sheet No. 2-42) and 25 P2 (on Sheet No. 2-43)Road between point P3, Works Nos. 2/55 and 2/57 and point P4Work No. 2/57 30Road between point P4,Works Nos. 2/58 and 2/57and points P6 and P5 35Footpath between points P7, P8 and P9, Works Nos. 2/57 and 2/58 and points P10, P11, P12 and P13Footpath between points P7 40 and P8, Work No. 2/59 andpoint P9Footpath between pointsP10, P5, P2 and P1, WorkNo. 2/60, point P3, Work 45 No. 2/60A (part), points P4andP9, footpath WAD/4A/1 and point P65￼Parish of WaddesdonA41 Bicester Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/57Blackgrove Road between points P4 and P5Footpaths WAD/5/1 and WAD/5/2 between points P7 and P13Footpath WAD/4/2 between points P7 and P9Footpath WAD/3/4 between points P10 and P6
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule131(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between point P1,Work No. 2/60, point P3, 5 Work No. 2/60A (part) andpoints P4 and P9Footpath between point P1,Works Nos. 2/67B, 2/67(part) and 2/68 and point P2 10Road between point P3,Work No. 2/67A, point P4,Work No. 2/67 (part), pointP5, Work No. 2/68 andpoint P6 15Work No. 2/67Footpath between points P1,P2 and P3, Work No. 2/69 20 (part) and point P4Work No. 2/69Footpath between points P5 25 and P6, Work No. 2/70 andpoints P7 and P8￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of Quainton(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath WAD/4A/1 between points P1 and P9Footpath QUA/31/4 between points P1 and P2Fidlers Field Road between points P3 and P6Station Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/67Footpath QUA/24A/1 between points P1 and P4Bridleway QUA/28A/2 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/69Footpath QUA/26/1 between points P5 and P8Edgcott Road between points P9 (on Sheet No. 2- 47) and P13 (on Sheet No. 2- 54)Footpath QUA/35/1 between points P1 and P3Bridleways QUA/36/1, QUA/36/2 and QUA/36/3 between points P3 and P8￼Work No. 2/71Footpath between points P1, P2 and P3Work No. 2/72Bridleway between points P4 and P5 and Work No. 2/ 73 (part)3035￼Parish of Grendon UnderwoodBridleway GUN/25/2 between points P4 and P7Bridleway GUN/25/1 between points P7 (on Sheet No. 2-54) and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-55)Bridleway GUN/28/1 between points P12 (on Sheet No. 2-54) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-55)Bridleway between point P7, 40 Work No. 2/73 (part) andpoints P5 and P9 (on SheetNo. 2-54) and P7 (on SheetNo. 2-55)Work No. 2/73 45
￼￼￼132High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between point P6(on Sheet No. 2-54), footpath 5 GUN/29/1, point P2 (onSheet No. 2-55) and WorkNo. 2/73Bridleway between pointsP7 and P5 (on Sheet No. 2- 10 55) and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-56)Footpath between points P3 and P4Bridleway between points 15 P2, P3, P4 and P6Bridleway between points P8 and P7, Work No. 2/76A and points P9, P5 and P6Footpath between point P10, 20 Work No. 2/75 and pointsP3, P2 and P1￼Footpath GUN/31/1 between points P6 and P7 (on Sheet No. 2-54)Bridleway CAG/3/1 between points P6 (on Sheet No. 2-55) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-56)Footpath CAG/2/1 between points P3 and P8Bridleway SCL/18/2 between points P1 and P11Bridleway SCL/18/1 between points P8 and P11￼Parish of Calvert Green￼Parish of Steeple ClaydonFootpath SCL/13/2 between points P10 and P1School Hill within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 80Addison Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/87Footpath SCL/8/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/89Footpaths SCL/9/1 and SCL/9/2 between points P2 and P7 (on Sheet No. 2-59)Footpath SCL/7/1 between points P1 and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-59)Footpath SCL/8/4 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/89Work No. 2/80 Work No. 2/87 Work No. 2/892530Footpath between points P2and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-59),footpath SCL/8/3, points P8and P9 (on Sheet No. 2-59), 35 Work No. 2/89 and pointsP5, P6 and P7 (on Sheet No. 2-58) and P7 (on Sheet No. 2- 59)40Footpath between points P1,P2 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-59), footpath SCL/8/3,points P8 and P9 (on SheetNo. 2-59), Work No. 2/89 45 and points P5, P6 and P7 (onSheet No. 2-58) and P7 (on Sheet No. 2-59)Work No. 2/8950
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule133(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P3,P8 and P9 (on Sheet No. 2- 5 59), Work No. 2/89 andpoints P5, P6 and P7 (onSheet No. 2-58) and P7 (onSheet No. 2-59)Footpath between points P7, 10 P8 and P9 (on Sheet No. 2-57), P13 and P14 (on SheetNo. 2-60), Perry Hill andpoint P1 (on Sheet No. 2-60)Work No. 2/91 15Footpath between point P1,Main Street and points P3,P4 and P2 20Work No. 2/92Footpath between points P3,P2 and P4, Work No. 2/92 25 (part) and points P5 and P6Footpath between points P8,P14 and P12 (on Sheet No. 2-60), P8, P7 and P6 (on SheetNo. 2-61) and P10 (on Sheet 30 No. 2-60), footpath TWY/16/1 and point P9 (on Sheet No. 2-60)Footpath between pointsP12 (on Sheet No. 2-60), P8, 35 P7 and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-61) and P10 (on Sheet No. 2-60)Footpath between points P3and P5, Work No. 2/95 40 (part), point P1, footpathPBI/5(F)/7 and point P4Work No. 2/95Work No. 2/96 45Footpath between points P1, P4, P3 and P2Work No. 2/98 50￼￼￼(1) AreaParishes of Steeple Claydon and TwyfordParish of Twyford(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath SCL/8/3 between points P3 and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-59)Footpaths SCL/6/1 and TWY/5/1 between points P7 and P10Perry Hill within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 91Footpath TWY/4/1 between points P1 and P2West Street within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/92Footpath TWY/18/2 between points P3 and P6Footpath TWY/17/1 between points P8 and P9 (on Sheet No. 2-60)Footpath TWY/16/1 between points P12 and P10 (on Sheet No. 2-60)Footpaths PBI/6/2 and PBI/6/3 between points P3 and P4Footpath PBI/5(F)/7 between points P1 and P2Byway PBI/5A/3 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/96Footpath PBI/9/3 between points P1 and P2￼￼￼Parish of Preston Bissett￼Parish of ChetwodeThe Green within Act limits
￼￼￼134High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P1and P2, Work No. 2/99 5 (part) and points P4 and P3Footpath between points P5,P6 and P7, School End, pointP8, Work No. 2/100 andpoint P9 10Footpath between points P1, P3, P4 and P5, Work No. 2/ 101 and points P6 and P7Footpath between points P4and P5, Work No. 2/101 and 15 points P6 and P7Footpath CHW/18/1 between points P1, P10 and P3Footpath CHW/11/1 between points P5 and P9Footpath BHA/3/1 between points P1 and P2Footpaths BHA/2/2 and BHA/2/1 between points P4 and P7A4421 Buckingham Road between points P8 (on Sheet No. 2-66) and P5 (on Sheet No. 2-67)Bridleway 213/7 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/103Bridleway 213/4 between points P1 and P4A421 London Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/105Featherbed Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/106Footpath 303/7 between points P1 and P3Bridleways 303/4/20 and 303/4/30 between points P1 and P3Bridleway 303/22/20 between points P4 and P3ABridleway 303/5/10 between points P6, P7 and P10Footpath WBB/17/1 between points P1, P5 and P7A422 Brackley Road within Act limits￼￼Parish of Barton HartshornCounty of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of Newton Purcell with ShelswellParishes of Newton Purcell with Shelswell and FinmereParish of FinmereParishes of Finmere and MixburyParish of MixburyWork No. 2/102Work No. 2/10320￼￼￼￼￼￼County of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WestburyParishes of Westbury and TurwestonBridleway between pointsP1 and P2, Work No. 2/104 25 and points P3 and P4Work No. 2/105Work No. 2/106 30Footpath between points P1and P2, Work No. 2/106 andpoint P3 35Bridleway between point P1, Work No. 2/107 and points P2 and P3Bridleway between pointsP4, P2 and P1 40Bridleway between points P6, P7, P8, P9 and P10Footpath between points P1and P2, Work No. 2/108 and 45 points P3, P4, P6 and P7Work No. 2/109￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule135(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P1and P2, Work No. 2/110 5 (part) and points P3, P4 andP5￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of Turweston(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpaths TUW/3/1 and TUW/3/2 between points P1 and P5Unnamed Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/110Bridleways TUW/4/1, TUW/4/2 and TUW/4/3 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 110Footpath TUW/5/1 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/110Footpath TUW/7/1 between points P6 and P8Footpath BD8 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-75)A43 Oxford Road within Act limitsBridleway BD7 between points P8 and P13Bridleway AX16 between points P5 and P7Footpath AX15 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/115Radstone Road between points P7 and P15Footpath AX7 between points P1 and P2Bridleway AX19 between points P4 and P5Bridleway AX18 and Footpath AX5 between points P9 and P11Bridleway between point P5, Work No. 2/114 and points P6 and P7Work No. 2/115Work No. 2/11635Work No. 2/110 Work No. 2/110Footpath between points P4 and P31015Footpath between points P6,P7 and P8 20￼County of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of WhitfieldParish of RadstoneFootpath between points P1 (on Sheet No. 2-75), P10 and P9 (on Sheet No. 2-74) and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-75)Work No. 2/11225Bridleway between pointsP8, P9 and P10, Work No. 2/113 and points P11 and P12 30￼Footpath between points P1,P12, P13 and P3, Work No. 40 2/116A, point P8, Work No.2/116 (part) and point P2Bridleway between pointsP4 and P6, Work No. 2/117(part), point P7, Work No. 45 2/116 (part), point P14,Work No. 2/116A (part) andpoint P5Bridleway between pointsP9 and P10, Work No. 2/117 50 and points P7 and P11
￼￼￼136High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P1and P2 5Work No. 2/118Bridleway between pointsP3, P4 and P5 (on Sheet No. 10 2-78), P3 and P6 (on SheetNo. 2-79), Work No. 2/119and points P7, P9 and P10(on Sheet No. 2-79)Footpath between points P5, 15 P3 and P6, Work No. 2/119and points P7, P9 and P10Footpath between points P4,P3 and P6, Work No. 2/119and points P7, P9 and P8 20￼Footpath AX6 between points P1 and P2Footpath AN22 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/118Bridleway AN37 between points P3 (on Sheet No. 2- 78) and P10 (on Sheet No. 2- 79)Footpath AN19 between points P5, P3, P9 and P10Footpath AN28 between points P4 and P8Bridleway AN14 between points T6, P11 and P13Helmdon Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/121Footpath AN13 between points P1 and P4Welsh Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/122Sulgrave Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/122CBanbury Road between points P4 and P5Footpath BB3 between points P1 and P3Bridleway AG9 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/125Bridleway AG10 between points P1 and P2￼Parish of Greatworth￼Parishes of Marston St Lawrence and SulgraveParishes of Marston St Lawrence and CulworthParish of CulworthParish of Chipping Warden and EdgcoteWork No. 2/122 30 Work No. 2/122CBridleway between points T6, P11 and P12, Work No. 2/120 and point P13Work No. 2/121Footpath between points P1, P2 and P3, Work No. 2/121 (part) and point P42535￼Work No. 2/123Footpath between points P1 and P2￼￼Footpath AE5 between points P1 and P6Work No. 2/125 40Bridleway between pointsP1 and P3, Work No. 2/126(part), point P4, Work No. 45 2/126A and point P2Footpath between points P1, P2, P3, P4 and P5
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule137(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P2and P18 and bridleway 5 between points P18, P19,P20, P3 and P5, footpathAE20, point P17, CulworthRoad and point P1Footpath between points P3, 10 P5, P16, P8 and P6Footpath between points P16, P8 and P6, Work No. 2/ 128 and points P7 and P4Footpath between point P7, 15 Work No. 2/128 and pointP6￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath AE28 between points P2 and P1Footpath AE20 between points P3 and P6Footpath AE12 between points P16 and P4Footpath AE21 between points P7 and P6A361 Byfield Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/128BAppletree Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/128CFootpath AC2 between points P1 and P4Footpath AC1 between points P5 and P6Claydon Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/129Claydon Road between points P1 and P2Banbury Road between points P3 (on Sheet No. 2- 88) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2- 89)Warwick Road between points P2 and P3Stoneton Road within Act limitsStoneton Lane within Act limitsFootpath SM101 between points P1 and P2Work No. 2/128BWork No. 2/128C20￼Parish of Aston Le Walls Parish of BoddingtonFootpath between points P1and P2, Work No. 2/129 25 (part) and points P3 and P4Footpath between points P5 and P7, Work No. 2/129 (part) and point P6Work No. 2/129 30 Works Nos. 2/132 and 2/132AWorks Nos. 2/132 and 2/ 35 132A￼￼County of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-AvonParish of StonetonWork No. 2/132B Work No. 2/132B Work No. 2/132BFootpath between points P1, P3, P4 and P24045￼
￼￼￼138High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/132Footpath between points P5, P7 and P6￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Boddington Road and Wormleighton Road within Act limitsFootpath SM116a between points P5 and P6Bridleway SM116 between points P8 and P9 (on Sheet No. 2-90) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-92)Wills Pastures Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/137Footpath SM96a between points P4 and P5Bridleway SM96 as shown on the definitive map between points P5 and P8Bridleway SM96 as shown on OS mapping between points P5, P5A and P8Radbourne Lane between points P2, P8, P5 and P6Windmill Lane between points P4 and P5Footpath SM90 between points P1 and P2A423 Banbury Road with Act limitsFootpath SM33 between points P1, P1A, P1B and P2Footpath SM24 between points P1 and P2A425 Leamington Road and Southam Road between points P1 and P2Kineton Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/144Parish of WormleightonParishes of Wormleighton and RadbournParish of Radbourn5￼￼￼Parishes of Radbourn and LadbrokeParish of LadbrokeParishes of Ladbroke and SouthamParish of Long ItchingtonParish of SouthamDistrict of Warwick Parish of OffchurchRidgeway Lane between points P1 and P2Bridleway between pointsP8, P8A, P10 and P11 (on 10 Sheet No. 2-90) and P3 andP2 (on Sheet No. 2-92)Work No. 2/13715Footpath between points P4and P6 (on Sheet No. 2-92),P1, P2 and P3 (on Sheet No.2-94) and P7 and P5 (onSheet No. 2-92) 20Bridleway between points P5, P9, P10, P11 and P8Bridleway between pointsP5, P9, P10, P11 and P8 25Road between points P2, P4 and P7, Work No. 2/139 and point P6Work No. 2/141 30Footpath between point P1,Work No. 2/141A, point P3,Work No. 2/141 and pointsP4 and P2 35Work No. 2/142Footpath between points P1, P3, P4, P5, P6, P7 and P2Footpath between points P1, 40 P3 and P2Work No. 2/147Work No. 2/144 45 Work No 2/149￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule139￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/151Work No. 2/153 Work No. 2/153A￼Welsh Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/151Fosse Way within Act limitsWelsh Road between points P1 and P2Long Itchington Road between points P3 and P4Footpath W192 between points P9 and P8Footpath W128 between points P12, P13 and P14 (on Sheet No. 2-103) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-104)Radford Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/153ACycle track within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 154Hunningham Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/156Footpath W129Y between points P7 and P8Footpaths W129X and W129A between points P11 and P12Mill Lane between points P1, P2 and P3Footpath W129d between points P1, P2 and P3Parishes of Cubbington and Weston under WetherlyParish of CubbingtonFootpath W130 between points P5, P6 and P7Rugby Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/162Footpath between point P1, 40 Work No. 2/160A, point P4,Work No. 2/160 and pointP3Footpath between points P5and P7 45Work No. 2/162Road between point P3, 10 Work No. 2/153C, point P5,Work No. 2/153, point P6,Work No. 2/153A, point P7,Work No. 2/153E and pointP4 15Footpath between points P9, P10, P11 and P8Footpath between pointsP12 and P15 (on Sheet No. 2-103) and P3, P4, P5, P6 and 20 P2 (on Sheet No. 2-104)Work No. 2/153AWork No. 2/154 25Work No. 2/156Footpath between points P7, P9, P10 and P8Work No. 2/158Road between point P1, Work No. 2/160A, point P4, Work No. 2/160 and point P330355￼￼
￼￼￼140High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between point P1,Work No. 2/162 and points 5 P3 and P2Work No. 2/163Work No. 2/164 10 Work No. 2/166Work No. 2/166C 15Footpath between point P1,Work No. 2/166A, point P3,Work No. 2/166 and pointsP4 and P2 20Work No. 2/173Bridleway between points 25 P1 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-111), P4, P5 and P6 (on SheetNo. 2-112), Work No. 2/176and points P7 and P3 (onSheet No. 2-112) 30Work No. 2/167Footpath between points P1and P3, Work No. 2/170 and 35 point P2Work No. 2/171Work No. 2/169 40Bridleway between points P8 and P6, Work No. 2/176 and points P7, P10 and P9Work No. 2/178A 45Footpath W130b between points P1 and P2Coventry Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/163A445 Leicester Lane between points P1 and P2Stoneleigh Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/166Stareton Lane between points P1 and P1AFootpath W171 between points P1 and P2A429 Kenilworth Road and A429 Coventry Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/173Bridleway W164 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 2-111) and P1, P2 and P3 (on Sheet No. 2-112)Ashow Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/167Footpath K29 between points P1 and P2Dalehouse Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/171A46 Kenilworth Bypass within Act limitsBridleway W165x between points P8 and P9￼￼Parishes of Cubbington and StoneleighParish of Stoneleigh￼￼Parishes of Stoneleigh and AshowParish of KenilworthParishes of Kenilworth and StoneleighParishes of Stoneleigh and Burton GreenParish of Burton GreenCryfield Grange Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/ 178A￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule141￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 2/178￼Bockendon Road and Crackley Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/178Footpath W167 between points P11 and P12Footpath W168 between points P3 and P7Footpath W169 between points P8 and P9Cromwell Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/183Kenilworth Greenway within Act limitsFootpath M187 between points P5 and P6Footpath M186 between points P11 and P12Footpath M198 between points P1 and P2Waste Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 2/186Coleshill Heath Road between points P1 and P2Footpath between pointsP11 and P13 (on Sheet No. 2-112), P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and 10 P6 (on Sheet No. 2-113) andP12 (on Sheet No. 2-112)Footpath between points P3, P4 and P7Footpath between point P8 15 (on Sheet No. 2-113), WorkNo. 2/182 and points P3, P2and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-114)and P12 and P9 (on SheetNo. 2-113) 205￼County of Warwickshire, District of Warwick, Parish of Burton Green and Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of BerkswellMetropolitan Borough of SolihullParish of BerkswellParishes of Bickenhill and Chelmsley WoodCounty of Warwickshire District of NorthWarwickshire Parish of ColeshillWork No. 2/183 Work No. 2/18225￼￼￼Footpath M77 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-14) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-16)Footpath M76 between points P4 and P5 (on Sheet No. 3-16) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-18)Footpath between points P5,P7, P8, P9 and P10, Work 30 No. 2/182 and point P6Footpath between points P11, P13, P14 and P12Footpath between points P1, 35 P3, P4, P5, P6 and P2Work No. 2/186Work No. 3/26 40 Footpath between points P1and P3 (on Sheet No. 3-14)and P3 and P2 (on Sheet No.3-16) 45Footpath between points P4 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-16) and P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-18)
￼￼￼142High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 3/28 Work No. 3/28A￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Birmingham Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/28Manor Drive between points P5 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-18), P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-20) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-23)Gilson Road between points P6 and P7Gilson Drive between points P1 and P5Footpath points P4Footpath points P2Footpath points P5 No. 3-22)Footpath points P1 No. 3-22)M56 between and P5M54 between and P3M60 between and P6 (on SheetM62 between and P2 (on SheetFootpath M54 (Green Lane) between points P1, P2, P3 and P4Footpath M43 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-26) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-29)Attleboro Lane between points P3 and P4Parishes of Coleshill and Water OrtonParish of Water Orton Parish of CurdworthWork No. 3/156 Work No. 3/414551015Footpath between WorksNos. 3/32A and 3/32 andpoints P4 and P3 20Footpath between points P5and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-22)and P9 (on Sheet No. 3-21),Work No. 3/33 and pointsP8 (on Sheet No. 3-21), P3 25 and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-22),footpath M62, Gilson Road and point P6 (on Sheet No. 3-22)Footpath between points P1 30 and P3 (on Sheet No. 3-22)and P8 (on Sheet No. 3-21),Work No. 3/33 and pointsP9 (on Sheet No. 3-21), P4and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-22) 35Footpath between points P1, P5 and P4Footpath between points P1and P1A (on Sheet No. 3-26), 40 Work No. 3/156, AttleboroLane, Vicarage Lane andpoint P2 (on Sheet No. 3-29)Work No. 3/32Works Nos. 3/32 and 3/32A Work No. 3/32￼￼￼Faraday Avenue between points P2 and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-36) and P2 and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-37)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule143￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 3/41C￼Hams Lane between points P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3- 36) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-38)Footpath M16 between points P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-38) and P1, P2, P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-40)A4097 Kingsbury Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/44Footpath M14 between points P1 and P2Marston Lane (Byway M450) between points P6 and P7Footpath M23, Footpath M23A and Seeneys Lane between points P1, P2, P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-46)Seeneys Lane and Footpath M23a between points P4 and P5 (on Sheet No. 3-46) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-47)￼Parish of Lea MarstonFootpath between points P4,P6 and P5 (on Sheet No. 3-40) and Work No. 3/43 10Work No. 3/44Work No. 3/44A 15 Byway between points P6,P8 and P7Footpath between points P1 20 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-46),P5 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-51), Work No. 3/47 andpoints P4 (on Sheet No. 3-51), P7 and P4 (on Sheet No. 25 3-46)Footpath between points P4and P7 (on Sheet No. 3-46)and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-51),Work No. 3/47, and points 30 P6 and P7 (on Sheet No. 3-51), P8 and P9 (on Sheet No. 3-46) and P3 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-47)Works Nos. 3/50 and 3/50B 35Work No. 3/50BFootpath between points P3,P5 and P10 (on Sheet No. 3- 40 52), Work No. 3/50 andpoints P8 and P9 (on SheetNo. 3-52) and P3 and P2 (onSheet No. 3-54)Work No. 3/51 455￼Parish of MiddletonBodymoor Heath Lane between points P10 and P11Brick Kiln Lane within Act limitsFootpath T17 between points P3 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-52) and P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-54)A4091 Tamworth Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/51Park Lane within Act limitsCrowberry Lane between points P2 and P3Work No. 3/51A Work No. 3/51B50
￼￼￼144High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 3/52 Work No. 3/54￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Church Lane within Act limitsFootpath T15 between points P1 and P2Shirrall Drive between points P1 and P2Bridleway Drayton Bassett 10 between points P1 and P2Drayton Lane within Act limitsA453 Carroway Head Hill and Sutton Road within Act limitsFootpath Drayton Bassett 11 between points P1 and P2Bangley Lane within Act limitsBridleway Hints 20 within Act limits5￼County of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettRoad between point P1,Work No. 3/57, point P3,Work No. 3/58 and point P2 10Bridleway between point P1, Work No. 3/57, point P3, Work No. 3/58 and point P2Parishes of Drayton Bassett and HintsParish of HintsWork No. 3/63 Work No. 3/63Footpath between points P6, P8, P9, P10 and P11Footpath between points P6, P8, P9, P10, P11 and P725Work No. 3/58 Work No. 3/5915Footpath between points P1,P3 and P4, Work No. 3/61 20 and point P2￼￼Footpath Hints 9 between points P6 and P11Footpath Hints 8 between points P6 and P7Footpath Hints 14 between points P1 and P2Footpath Hints 13 between points P1 and P6Brockhurst Lane and bridleway Hints 12 within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/68Footpath Hints 11 between points P7 and P8A5 Trunk Road (Fazeley to Weeford New Road) within Act limitsFootpath between points P1 30 and P3, Work No. 3/65 andpoint P2Footpath between points P1and P3, Work No 3/65 andpoints P4 and P6 35Road between point P5, Work No. 3/68 and point P7Footpath between points P7 40 and P10, Work No. 3/68,and points P9 and P8Work No. 3/7245
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule145￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWork No. 3/71Footpath between points P1, P4, P5 and P3￼Watling Street within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/71Footpath Hints 0.378 between points P1, P2, and P3Footpath Hints 19 between points P8, P6 and P10Bridleway Hints 4 between points P12 and P13Flats Lane and Jerrys Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/74Tamworth Lane, bridleway Swinfen and Packington 5, Knox’s Grave Lane and bridleway Swinfen and Packington 7 between points P4 and P1Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 8 between points P6 and P7A51 Tamworth Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/80Bridleway Swinfen and Packington 9 between points P1 and P2Footpath Whittington 16 between points P3 and P6 (on Sheet No. 3-64) and P6 and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-65)Sandy Lane and bridleway Whittington 17 between points P2 and P7Darnford Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/85Lichfield Road (Whittington Common Road) within Act limitsParish of WeefordParishes of Weeford and Swinfen and PackingtonParish of Swinfen and PackingtonParishes of Swinfen and Packington and WhittingtonParish of WhittingtonFootpath between points P8, 10 P9, P11, P7, P2, P4, P5 andP10Bridleway between pointsP12 and P14, Work No. 3/72A and point P13 15Work No. 3/74Road between point P4,Work No. 3/75, point P5, 20 Work No. 3/74, point P3,Work No. 3/76 and point P1Bridleway between points 25 P6 and P8, Work No. 3/77Aand point P75￼￼￼￼Work No. 3/8030￼Bridleway between point P1, Work No. 3/81 and point P2Footpath between points P3,P4, P5 and P7 (on Sheet No. 35 3-64) and P5 and P1 (onSheet No. 3-65)Road between point P2,Work No. 3/83, point P4,Work No. 3/84 and point P7 40Work No. 3/85 Work No. 3/84 Work No. 3/8745￼Parish of Fradley and StreethayBroad Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/87
￼￼￼146High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P1,P3 and P2 5￼Footpath Streethay 6 between points P1 and P2A5127 Burton Road within Act limitsFootpaths Alrewas 31 and Streethay 7 between points P1 and P2Wood End Lane within Act limitsNetherstowe Lane within Act limitsFootpath King’s Bromley 0.392 between points P1 and P2Shaw Lane within Act limitsA515 Lichfield Road within Act limitsFootpath King’s Bromley 6 between points P1, P2 and P4Work No. 3/89AFootpath between points P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P7, P8 and P1Work No. 3/95 Work No. 3/9710￼Parish of King’s BromleyFootpath between points P1 15 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-75),P1A, P1, P2, P3, P4 and P4A(on Sheet No. 3-77) and P2Aand P2 (on Sheet No. 3-75)Work No. 3/105 20￼Metropolitan Borough of SolihullParish of BerkswellFootpath M191 between points P1 and P2 (on Sheet No. 3-001) and between points P1 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3-002)Footpath M192 between points P4, P5 and P6Footpath M197 between points P1 and P3Lavender Hall Lane within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/5Footpath M196 between points P5 and P6Park LaneFootpath M215 between points P1 and P2P3 and P4 25 Footpath between point P1,Work No. 3/103Footpath between points P1,Kenilworth Greenway,points P3 and P2 (on SheetNo. 3-001) and between 30 points P1, P2, P3 and P4 (onSheet No. 3-002)Footpath between points P4 and P6Footpath between points P1, 35 P2 and P3Work No. 3/5Footpath between points P5 40 and P7Work No. 3/5AFootpath between points P1and P3, Work No. 3/7A andpoints P4 and P2 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule147(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionFootpath between points P6,P2 and P4, Work No. 3/7A, 5 points P3 and P1, footpathsM215 and M216, points T3,T4 and P5 and betweenpoints P5, P8, P9, P10 andP7, footpaths M217 and 10 M216 and points T5 and P6Footpath between points P8, P9, P10 and P7Bridleway between point P2,Work No. 3/9A, point P3, 15 Works Nos. 3/9 (part) and3/9C, Marsh Lane and pointP1￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upFootpath M216 between points P5 and P6Footpath M217 between points P7 and P8Bridleway M218 between points P1 and P2A452 Kenilworth Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/5BA452 Kenilworth Road between points P11 (on Sheet No. 3-003) and P7 (on Sheet No. 3-004)Footpath M230A between points P4 and P5Meriden Road between points P8 and P9Diddington Lane between points P1 and P6 (stopped up to vehicular traffic only)A45 Service Road within Act limitsFootpath M107 between points P1 and P2A452 Kenilworth Road between points P7 (on Sheet No. 3-005) and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-006)A45 Coventry Road between points P1 (on Sheet No. 3-006) and P5 (on Sheet No. 3-007)￼￼Parishes of Berkswell and BalsallParishes of Berkswell, Hampton-in-Arden and MeridenParish of Hampton-in- ArdenWork No. 3/5B Work No. 3/92025￼￼Footpath between points P4and P6, Work No. 3/10,Meriden Road, point P8,Work No. 3/10A, point P9,Meriden Road, footpath 30 M230A and point P5Work No. 3/10 Bridleway between pointsP1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and P6 35￼Parishes of Hampton-in- Arden and BickenhillParish of BickenhillA452 Chester Road within Act limitsWork No. 3/16BFootpath to be providedbetween points P1 and P3 40Work No. 3/19 (part)Works Nos. 3/16 and 3/16A 45Works Nos. 3/19, 3/22, 3/22E and 3/22G 50￼
￼￼￼148High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)New highway to be provided in substitutionWorks Nos. 3/16C and 3/21A 5￼Eastway within the limits of deviation of Works Nos. 3/ 16C and 3/21AB4438 within Act limitsA446 Stonebridge Road within Act limitsWater Orton Road between points P1 and P2Wolseley DriveAston Church Road between points P1 (on Sheet No. 3-113) and P3 (on Sheet No. 3-112)Arley Road between points P2 and P4 (on Sheet No. 3- 112)High Street and Saltley Viaduct within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/ 220Crawford Street between points P1 and P2Washwood Heath Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/ 220Lawley Middleway between points P6 and P7, P7 and P8, and P7 and P9Vauxhall Road within the limits of deviation of Work No. 3/225BCurzon Circus within Act limitsCurzon Street between points P7 and P10 (on Sheet No. 3-116) and between points P7 and P8 (on Sheet No. 3-118)New Canal Street between points P8 and P9￼Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Bickenhill and County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parishes of Little Packington and ColeshillCity of BirminghamWorks Nos. 3/22 and 3/22BWorks Nos. 3/22G, 3/22 (part) and 3/22E10￼Work No. 3/159 15 Work No. 3/206Work No. 3/21520Work No. 3/215AWork No. 3/220 25Work No. 3/220 Work No. 3/22030Works Nos. 3/225 and 3/ 35 225AWork No. 3/225BWorks Nos. 3/225 and 3/ 225BWorks Nos. 3/225B and 3/ 227Work No. 3/2274045￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule149￼NOTE: References in column (3) of table 2 to a footpath or bridleway include any highway over which members of the public have, or are to have, a right of way on foot and (in the case of a bridleway) on horseback or leading a horse, whether or not with any other public rights of way.￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of CamdenTABLE 3(2)Highway or part to be stopped upEndsleigh GardensGower PlaceUpper Woburn Place Gordon Street Gower StreetEuston RoadEuston Square Grafton Place Stephenson Way North Gower Street Regnart Buildings Eversholt Street Euston Street Lancing Street ChurchwayDoric Way Drummond Street Cobourg Street Starcross Street Drummond Crescent Chalton Street Phoenix Road Hampstead Road Polygon Road(3)Extent of temporary stopping upEntire length510￼Entire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsEntire lengthEntire lengthWithin Act limitsEntire length 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limitsEntire length 25 Within Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits
￼￼￼150High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upRobert Street Varndell Street Aldenham Street Harrington Street Barnby Street Stanhope Street Mackworth Street Augustus Street Granby Terrace Lidlington Place Harrington Square Mornington Crescent Mornington Terrace Mornington Street Park Village East Albany StreetAlbert StreetDelancey Street Gloucester GatePrince Albert Road ParkwayCumberland Market Oakley Square Tottenham Court Road Warren StreetSt Pancras Way Wrotham Road Baynes Street Agar Grove Randolph Street Rousden Street(3)Extent of temporary stopping upEntire lengthEntire length 5 Within Act limitsEntire lengthEntire lengthEntire lengthEntire length 10 Entire lengthEntire lengthEntire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Entire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire Length 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule151(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T220Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsEntire lengthEntire lengthWithin Act limitsEntire length 30 Within Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upCamden RoadRoyal College StreetBonny StreetProwse PlaceCamden StreetCamden GardensKentish Town RoadTorbay StreetGrand Union Canal towing pathLeybourne Road Haven Street Castlehaven Road Chalk Farm RoadPath from the Grand Union Canal to Camden Lock PlaceJuniper Crescent Gloucester Avenue Gloucester Crescent Regent’s Park Road Oval RoadSt Mark’s Crescent Princess RoadSt Mark’s Square Edis StreetSunny Mews Fitzroy Road Dumpton Place Chalcot Road Berkley RoadKing Henry’s Road￼
￼￼￼152High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire length 25 Within Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits30Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35￼Bridge Approach Adelaide Road Eton RoadFellows Road Primrose Hill Road Winchester Road Hilgrove Road Avenue Road College Crescent Finchley Road Alexandra Road Loudoun Road Alexandra Place Belsize Road Fairfax Road Fairhazel Gardens Abbey Road Langtry Road Springfield Walk Kilburn Priory Greville Road Greville Mews Springfield Lane Kilburn PlaceWest End LaneKilburn High RoadOxford RoadCarlton Vale Kilburn Lane￼City of Westminster and London Boroughs of Brent and CamdenCity of Westminster and London Borough of Brent￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule153(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Camden and City of WestminsterCity of Westminster(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Boundary RoadFernhead Road Ashmore Road Portnall Road Herries Street Beethoven Street Fifth Avenue Abbey RoadBarlby RoadNorth Avenue Junction Avenue Central AvenueScrubs LaneGrand Union Canal towing path￼Royal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamLondon Borough of BrentWithin Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Between points T1 and T2 Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T21520Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limits5￼￼￼Cambridge Avenue Coventry Close Canterbury Road Brondesbury Villas Woodville Road Canterbury Terrace Denmark Road Albert RoadSalusbury Road Premier Corner Claremont Road Allington Road Banister RoadWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire lengthBetween points T1 and T2 30 (on Sheet No. 1-11) andbetween points T1 and T2(on Sheet No. 1-12)Within Act limitsEntire length 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits
￼￼￼154High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsEntire length 5 Entire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire lengthWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limits￼Chamberlayne Road Buller Road Compton Road Warfield Road Wakeman Road Pember Road Halstow Road Berens Road Bayford Road Rainham Road West LinksManor Farm RoadHarrow RoadAlperton Lane￼London Borough of Brent and Royal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaLondon Boroughs of Brent and EalingLondon Borough of EalingWells House Road Millway GardensPath between Wells House Road and Old Oak Common LaneOld Oak Common Lane Midland Terrace Victoria RoadA4000Chandos RoadOld Oak LaneAtlas RoadShaftesbury GardensGrand Union Canal towing pathWales Farm Road Chase RoadWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limits2025￼￼Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsEntire Length Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule155(3)Extent of temporary stopping upEntire lengthBetween points P2 and T1 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upSchool RoadBethune RoadPark Royal RoadSt Leonard’s RoadPath from Chase Road to Park Royal StationGorst RoadWestern AvenueMansfield RoadAlliance RoadPath at Mason’s Green footbridgeHanger Lane West GatePath from Western Avenue to Brunswick RoadPublic subway at the junction of Hanger Lane with Western AvenueMay GardensCycle path and path alongside Western AvenueRydal CrescentBideford Avenue Horsenden Lane South Chilham CloseConway Crescent Rockware Avenue Greenford RoadPath from Greenford Road Oldfield Lane NorthCarr RoadBelvue RoadBadmington Close￼Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limits15Between points T1, T2 and 20 T3Within Act limits Within Act limits25Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T2 and T3Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsEntire length
￼￼￼156High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits￼Mandeville RoadPublic underpass beneath Mandeville RoadBelvue Close Eastcote Lane Moat Farm Lane Cherry Gardens￼London Borough of HillingdonGreat Central AvenueStation ApproachLong DriveVictoria RoadWest End RoadPath from West End Road to Bell CloseFootpath east of Rabournmead DriveFootpath west of Rabournmead DriveHerlwyn Avenue Crosier Way Blenheim Crescent Ickenham High Road Ickenham RoadHill LaneThe Greenway Footpath U81 Footpath R146Breakspear Road South Footpath U47Footpath U45Footpath U43Within Act limits Within Act limits20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30Between points P2 (on Sheet No. 1-34) and T1 (on Sheet No. 1-53)Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and P2 35 Between points P2 and T2Between points T2 and T3
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule157(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T2 (on SheetNo. 1-35) and T2 (on Sheet 5 No. 1-53)Between points P4 (on Sheet No. 1-36) and T1 (on Sheet No. 1-48)Between points T1 (on Sheet 10 No. 1-36) and T1 (on SheetNo. 1-49)Between points T2 (on SheetNo. 1-36) and T2 (on SheetNo. 1-49) 15Within Act limitsBetween points T2 and T3Between points T4 and T5Between points T6 and T7Within Act limits 20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25Within Act limitsBetween points T2, T3, T4, T5 and P2Between points P1, P2, P3(on Sheet No. 2-04) and P4, 30 P6 and T7 (on Sheet No. 2-01)￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upFootpath U44 Bridleway U42 Footpath U49 Footpath U51Newyears Green Lane Footpath U37 Footpath U36 Footpath U38Harvil Road Swakeleys Road Western Avenue Skip Lane Bridgwater Road Bedford Road Footpath U75 Footpath U34Footpath (not on the definitive map) between Footpath U34 and Harvil RoadFootpath U31Footpath (not on the definitive map) between Harvil Road and Footpath U31Footpath U32Footpath U35Footpath U50 Breakspear Road North￼Within Act limits Within Act limits35Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 40 Within Act limits
￼￼￼158High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsEntire length 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits15Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20￼Moorhall RoadFootpath DEN/48/3Footpath DEN/20/1Footpath DEN/20/2Footpath DEN/48/2Bridleway DEN/53/5Bridleway DEN/53/4Bridleway DEN/53/3Bridleway DEN/53/2 and footpath DEN/49/1Footpath DEN/48/1 Denham Court DriveA40 Denham Roundabout Moorfield Road Bridleway DEN/38/1Shire Lane/ bridleway DEN/2/1A412 Denham Way (North Orbital Road)Shire Lane / bridleway DEN/2/1/ Ricks 002Shire Lane/ bridleway DEN/3/1/ Ricks 002￼County of Buckinghamshire District of South Bucks Parish of Denham￼County of Buckinghamshire, District of South Bucks, Parish of Denham and County of Hertfordshire, District of Three RiversCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversBetween points T1 (on Sheet No. 2-09) and P1 (on Sheet No. 2-11)Within Act limits25￼Bridleway Ricks 002 Bridleway Ricks 004Between points T1 (on Sheet 30 No. 2-08) and T2 (on SheetNo. 2-09)Between points T2, P2, P5 and T3Between points T1 (on Sheet 35 No. 2-09), P10, P9, P3, P5and T8 (on Sheet No. 2-10)Between points P1 (on SheetNo. 2-10) and P1 (on SheetNo. 2-11), between points 40 P2 and T5 (on Sheet No. 2-10) and between points T4and T3 (on Sheet No. 2-10)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule159(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T1 and T6(on Sheet No. 2-10) and 5 between points T7, P6 (onSheet No. 2-10) and P1 (onSheet No. 2-08)Between points T1 and T2Between points P7, P8 and 10 T8Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T8 (on SheetNo. 2-10) and T1 (on Sheet 15 No. 2-13)Between points P1 (on Sheet No. 2-11), P10, P9, P3, P5 and T8 (on Sheet No. 2-10)Within Act limits 20 Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Tilehouse LaneOld Uxbridge Road Chalfont LaneHornhill Road M25 MotorwayShire Lane Bridleway CSP/44/1Bridleway CSP/43/2 Footpath CSP/10/1 Footpath CSP/9/3 Chesham LaneFootpath CSG/32/1 Amersham Road Pheasant HillHigh Street Footpath CSG/32/4 Footpath CSG/30/1 Footpath CSG/28/4Footpath AMI/16/2 Footpath AMI/18/3 Whielden StreetA413 Amersham Bypass Footpath AMS/26/3Whielden LaneA413 Amersham Road￼County of Buckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of Chalfont St Peter￼Parish of Chalfont St Giles￼Parish of AmershamParishes of Amersham and ColeshillParishes of Amersham and Little Missenden￼￼￼
￼￼￼160High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Bridleway LMI/42/1 and Footpath LMI/40/1Footpath LMI/40/2Bullbaiters Lane and Bridleway LMI/27/1Footpath LMI/17/2Hyde Heath Road Footpath GMI/23/7Footpath GMI/33/5Hyde Lane Chesham Road Footpath GMI/26/1 Footpath GMI/23/6 Footpath GMI/27/1 Footpath GMI/33/1 Footpath GMI/33/2 Footpath GMI/33/3 Footpath GMI/33/4 Footpath GMI/33/5Kings Lane Footpath GMI/28/1 Footpath GMI/79/1 Footpath GMI/79/2 Footpath GMI/80/1 Frith HillPotter Row Footpath GMI/13/3 Footpath GMI/12/1 Footpath GMI/2/1 Leather LaneParish of Little MissendenParishes of Little Missenden and Great MissendenParish of Great Missenden5Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 10Within Act limitsBetween points P7, P16, T4 and T5Between points P22 and T2 15 Between points T2 and P23Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points P16, T4 andT5 25Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Between points T1 and T2Within Act limitsBetween points T5 and T6Between points T7 and T8Between points T3 and T1 35 Between points T4 and T5￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule161(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsBetween points T4 (on SheetNo. 2-29) and T1 (on SheetNo. 2-30) 15Between points T2, P5 and P2Between points T3, P4 and P2Between points T1, P1 and 20 P2Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limits￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of The LeeDistrict of Chiltern, Parish of The Lee and District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of WendoverDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Wendover(2)Highway or part to be stopped upFootpath WEN/37/1Footpath WEN/38/1 Rocky LaneFootpath WEN39/1 Footpath WEN/40/1 Footpath WEN/39/2Footpath WEN/33/1Footpath WEN/36/1Hale RoadBridleway WEN/57/1A413 Wendover Bypass/ A413 London RoadLondon Road Small Dean LaneBacombe LaneBridleway WEN/14/3 Bridleway WEN/14/4 Bridleway WEN/14/5 Footpath WEN/13A/1 Bridleway WEN/15/4 Footpath WEN/44/2 Footpath WEN/11/1￼Footpath TLE/3/1 Footpath TLE/2/2Bowood Lane￼￼Within Act limitsBetween points T2, P2 andP3 30 Between points T1, P1 andP4Between points T1 and P2Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits
￼￼￼162High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T5, P8 andP7 5Between points T6 and P7 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits￼Footpath WEN/11/2Footpath WEN/6/3 Footpath WEN/6/2 Ellesborough Road Footpath WEN/6/1 Footpath WEN/55/1 Footpath WEN/4/2Nash Lee LaneFootpath ELL/25/1Footpath ELL/21/1 Nash Lee RoadFootpath ELL/20/1 Footpath ELL/1/1Footpath ELL/2/1 Footpath ELL/8/1 Footpath ELL/4/1Road leading to BishopstoneFootpath GLK/30/3 Footpath GLK/31/1￼District of Aylesbury Vale, Parish of Wendover and District of Wycombe, Parish of EllesboroughDistrict of Wycombe Parish of Ellesborough15￼￼Parishes of Ellesborough and Great and Little Kimble cum MarshParish of Great and Little Kimble cum MarshDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke MandevilleBetween points T1 and T2(on Sheet No. 2-33) and 20 between points T5 (on SheetNo. 2-33) and P7 (on SheetNo. 2-32)Within Act limitsBetween points T5 and T6 25 and between points P16 andP17Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsBetween points T3 and P2Within Act limits￼Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits35￼Footpath SMA/6/1Footpath SMA/5/2 Footpath SMA/5A/1 Footpath SMA/5/1Between points P5 and T4Between points P7 and T4 40 Between points T4 and P10
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule163(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points P12 (onSheet No. 2-33), T1 and T2 5 (on Sheet No. 2-34)Between points P28 and T3 and between points P29 and T4Between points T7 and T8, 10 between points T9 and T10,between points P30 and T11and between points P31 andT12Within Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points P8 and P12 25 Within Act limitsBetween points P3 and T1Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limits￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼A4010 Risborough Road Old Risborough Road Marsh LaneFootpath SMA/8/2 Footpath SMA/8/3 Footpath SMA/13A/2 Footpath SMA/9/1 Footpath SMA/9/2 Footpath SMA/10/1 Footpath SMA/15/1 Footpath SMA/15A/1 Footpath SMA/16/1 Footpath SMA/16/2 Footpath SMA/16/3 Footpath SMA/11/1 Footpath SMA/11/2 Bridleway SMA/22/1 Footpath SMA/18/1 Lower RoadFootpath SBH/17/3￼Parishes of Stoke Mandeville and Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellParish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellFootpath SBH/29/1Footpath SBH/34/1Path adjacent to Footpath SBH/34/1Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits35￼
￼￼￼164High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points P17 and T2(on Sheet No. 2-36) and 5 within Act limits (on SheetNo. 2-37)Between points P15 and T3Between points T4 and P23Within Act limits 10Within Act limitsBetween points T1, P1, P2 and T2Between points P3, P4 andT3 15Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limits￼Footpath SBH/28/2Footpath SBH/17A/1 Bridleway SBH/19/7 Bridleway SBH/19/9 Footpath SBH/28/1 Footpath SBH/27/1Footpath SBH/34/1A418 Oxford Road Footpath SBH/3/1 Footpath SBH/32/1 Footpath SBH/32/2 Footpath SBH/32/3 Footpath SBH/32/4 Bridleway SBH/2/3 Bridleway SBH/2/4￼Parish of AylesburyFootpath AYL/3A/1 Footpath AYL/4/2 Footpath AYL/4/1 Footpath AYL/5/1 Footpath AYL/39/1 Footpath AYL/37/1 Parrott Close Stratford Drive Bonham CloseMiles End Tolman Court Lavender Close Lupin Walk
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule165(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and P1 10 Within Act limitsBetween points T2 and T3(on Sheet No. 2-43) andwithin Act limits (on Sheet 15 No. 2-44)Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points P1 and T1Within Act limits 20 Between points T4 and P13Between points T2 and T3 Within Act limitsBetween points P1 and T2 25 and between points T5 andT6Between points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T2 and P5 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Between points T3 and T4￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of ColdharbourParish of Fleet MarstonParishes of Fleet Marston and WaddesdonParish of Waddesdon(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Foxglove Nene CloseFootpath CDH/1/1 Footpath CDH/1/2Unnamed Road (on Sheet No. 2-42)Bridleway FMA/1/1Footpath FMA/2/1A41 Bicester Road and Aylesbury RoadBridleway WAD/8/3Footpath WAD/7A/5Footpath WAD/6/4Blackgrove RoadFootpaths WAD/5/1 and WAD/5/2Footpath WAD/4/2 Footpath WAD/3/4 Footpath WAD/4A/1Fidlers Field Lane Station RoadQuainton Road￼￼￼￼￼Parishes of Waddesdon and QuaintonParish of QuaintonFootpath QUA/30/1 Footpath QUA/31/4 Footpath QUA/29A/2 Footpath QUA/26/1 Footpath QUA/28A/1 Footpath QUA/28A/2 Footpath QUA/35/2￼
￼￼￼166High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T1 and P4Within Act limits 5 Between points T1 and T2Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Between points T3 and T4 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T5 and T615Between points T1 and T2 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween point T5 and T6 35 Within Act limits￼Footpath QUA/24A/1Edgcott RoadFootpath QUA/25A/1Unnamed Road (on Sheet Nos. 2-48 and 2-50)Footpath QUA/39/1 Footpath QUA/38/2 Footpath QUA/35/1 Bridleway QUA/36/2 Bridleway QUA/36/3Footpath QUA/40/4Footpath HOG/7/1Unnamed Road (on Sheet Nos. 2-51 and 2-52)Granborough RoadBridleway GUN/25/1Bridleway GUN/25/2 Bridleway GUN/28/1 Bridleway GUN/31/1 Bridleway GUN/31/2Bridleway GUN/33/2 Bridleway MCL/18/2Bridleway CAG/3/1 Footpath CAG/2/1 Bridleway SCL/18/1 Bridleway SCL/18/2 Footpath CAG/5/1 Footpath SCL/17/1￼Parishes of Quainton and HogshawParish of HogshawParishes of Quainton, Hogshaw and East ClaydonParish of East ClaydonParish of Grendon UnderwoodParish of Middle Claydon Parish of Calvert GreenParish of Steeple ClaydonFootpath SCL/13/2 Footpath SCL/12/1 Addison Road￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule167(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and P6Between points T2 and P2Between points T3 (on SheetNo. 2-59) and P4 (on Sheet 10 No. 2-58)Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 (on SheetNo. 2-58) and P10 (on Sheet 15 No. 2-57)Between points P1 and P5Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T5 and T4Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T4 and P2Within Act limits 35￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath SCL/8/1 West StreetSchool Hill Footpath SCL/7/1 Footpath SCL/9/1 Footpath SCL/8/4Footpath SCL/9/2 Footpath SCL/8/3Footpaths SCL/6/1 and TWY/5/1Footpath TWY/4/1 Footpath TWY/18/2 Footpath TWY/17/1 Footpath TWY/16/1 Footpath TWY/19/3Perry HillByway PBI/5A/3 Footpath PBI/6/2 Footpath PBI/5(F)/7 Footpath PBI/9/3 Bridleway CHW/24/2The GreenFootpath CHW/18/1 Footpath CHW/11/1 School EndFootpath BHA/2/1 Footpath BHA/2/2 Footpath BHA/3/1￼Parishes of Steeple Claydon and TwyfordParish of TwyfordParishes of Twyford and Preston BissettParish of Preston BissettParish of ChetwodeParish of Barton Hartshorn￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼168High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T3 and T4Within Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits￼Bridleway 225/4Footpath 225/5 Bridleway 225/4/10Footpath 308/2 Footpath 308/3A4421 Buckingham Road Bridleway 213/7Bridleway 213/4 Footpath 213/1A421 London RoadFeatherbed Lane Church Lane Footpath 303/7 Bridleway 303/5/10Bridleway 303/4/30Bridleway 303/4/20 Bridleway 303/22/20 Bridleway 303/22/10Footpath WBB/16/2 Footpath WBB/17/1A422 Brackley RoadCounty of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of GodingtonParish of Newton Purcell with ShelswellParishes of Newton Purcell with Shelswell and FinmereParish of FinmereParishes of Finmere and MixburyParish of Mixbury510￼￼￼￼￼￼County of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WestburyParishes of Westbury and TurwestonParish of TurwestonFootpath TUW/3/2Between points T1 and T2Between points T3 and T4 15 Between points T2 and T3Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Between points T1 and P3Between points T4, P6, P7,P10 and T5 (on Sheet No. 2-69) and between points T1and T2 (on Sheet No. 2-70) 25Between points T1 and P3A and between points T8 and T9Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsBetween points T2 (on SheetNo. 2-72), P5 and P10 (onSheet No. 2-74) 40￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule169(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T3 (on SheetNo. 2-72) and T1 (on Sheet 5 No. 2-73)Between points T4 (on Sheet No. 2-72) and T2 (on Sheet No. 2-73)Within Act limits 10Within Act limitsBetween points P1 and P2Between points T1 and T2 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits20Within Act limitsBetween points P8 and P13Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsBetween points P7 (on SheetNo. 2-75) and T3 (on SheetNo. 2-77) 30Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T2 and P3 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T3Within Act limits 40 Between points T3 and T4￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upFootpaths TUW/11/1 and TUW/11/2Bridleways TUW/8/2 and TUW/8/1Unnamed Road (on Sheet No. 2-74)Footpaths TUW/4/1, TUW/4/2 and TUW/4/3Bridleway TUW/9/2 Bridleway TUW/7/1 Footpath TUW/5/1Footpath BD2Footpath BD4 Bridleway BD7 Footpath BD8 The AvenueOxford RoadBridleway AX14Bridleway AX18 and footpath AX5Bridleway AX19 Bridleway AX15 Bridleway AX1Brackley Road￼￼County of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of WhitfieldParishes of Whitfield and BrackleyParish of RadstoneParishes of Radstone and HelmdonParish of GreatworthBridleway AN28 Footpath AN22 Bridleway AN37 Footpath AN19￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼170High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsBetween points T5 and T6 5 Between points T1 and T2Between points T4 and T9Between points T3 and T5Between points T6 and T7Within Act limits 10Between points T8 (on SheetNo. 2-80), T7 and T5 (onSheet No. 2-81) 15￼Helmdon Road Bridleway AN14 Footpath AN13 Footpath AN4 Footpath AN40 Footpath AN42Welsh RoadFootpaths AN39, AN6 and AY12Banbury Road Sulgrave RoadBanbury Lane Footpath BB4Bridleway AG10 Bridleway AG9 High StreetWardington RoadCulworth Road A361 Byfield Road Footpath AE17 Footpath AE16Footpath AE5Appletree Lane Footpath AA8Claydon Road Banbury Road Warwick Road￼Parishes of Greatworth, Culworth and Chipping Warden and EdgcoteParishes of Greatworth and SulgraveParishes of Marston St Lawrence and SulgraveParish of Thorpe MandevilleParish of CulworthParishes of Culworth and Chipping Warden and EdgcoteParish of Chipping Warden and EdgcoteParish of Aston Le Walls Parish of BoddingtonBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limits Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits20￼￼￼￼￼Within Act limits 25Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T3 and T4 30 Between points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule171(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) AreaCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-AvonParish of StonetonParishes of Stoneton and WormleightonParish of WormleightonParishes of Wormleighton and RadbournParish of RadbournParish of Napton-on-the- HillParish of LadbrokeParishes of Ladbroke and SouthamParishes of Southam and Long ItchingtonParish of Long ItchingtonParishes of Long Itchington and UftonParish of UftonDistrict of Warwick Parish of Offchurch(2)Highway or part to be stopped upStoneton LaneFootpath SM116aFootpath SM101Wormleighton Road and Boddington RoadFootpath SM200 A423 Banbury RoadBridleway SM116Footpath SM96aBridleway SM96 as shown on the definitive mapWelsh RoadE2413 Radbourne Lane Footpath SM90 Windmill Lane Footpath SM89A423 Banbury RoadA425 Leamington Road and Southam RoadFootpath SM24 Footpath SM19Bascote Road Welsh RoadUfton Hill￼510￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Grand Union Canal towing pathRidgeway Lane Welsh RoadWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Between points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits
￼￼￼172High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35￼Long Itchington Road Footpath W129y Footpath W129c Footpath W129xMill StreetFootpath W129d Rugby RoadA425 Leicester Lane Footpath W137Footpath W129d Footpath W130Footpath W130bBridle Road Stareton Road Bridleway W164 Bridleway W165xFootpath K29 Footpath W158 Crew Lane Footpath K7Cryfield Grange Road Bockendon Road Blind LaneFootpath W167 Footpath W168 Footpath W168a Footpath W169Red Lane Cromwell Lane Hodgetts Lane￼Parish of CubbingtonParishes of Cubbington and Weston under WetherlyParishes of Cubbington and StoneleighParish of StoneleighParish of KenilworthParish of Burton Green￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule173(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) AreaMetropolitan Borough of SolihullParish of Berkswell(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Footpath M182(35)Footpath M182a Footpath M186 Footpath M187 Footpath M182 Hob Lane Footpath M183 Footpath M184 Waste Lane Footpath M191 Footpath M192Kenilworth Greenway surfaced cycle track (not on definitive map)Truggist Lane Footpath M198 Footpath M196 Footpath M214 Footpath M215 Footpath M216Footpath M217A452 Kenilworth RoadBridleway M218Park LaneA452 Kenilworth RoadA452 Kenilworth RoadMarsh LaneWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T3, T4, P5, 25 P6 and T5 and betweenpoints T9 and T10Within Act limitsBetween points T13 and T145￼Parishes of Berkswell and BalsallParishes of Berkswell, Hampton-in-Arden and MeridenParishes of Hampton-in- Arden and Berkswell(on Sheet No. 3-003) 30 Between points T1 and P1Entire lengthWithin Act limitsWithin the limits of 35 deviation of Work No. 3/9Within Act limits￼￼￼
￼￼￼174High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T2 and P5Between points T3 and P9 (on Sheet No. 3-004) and within Act limits (on Sheet No. 3-005)￼Footpath M230A Meriden RoadDiddington Lane Footpath M114A452 Kenilworth RoadEastway Link Road A45 Coventry Road Old Station Road Footpath M107M42 MotorwayA452 Chester Road Bickenhill Lane Footpath M104 Blackfirs Lane EastwayMiddle Bickenhill LaneColeshill Heath RoadBluebell Drive Yorkminster Drive Lycroft AvenuePaths (not on the definitive map) within Bluebell Recreation GroundParish of Hampton-in- Arden5Parishes of Bickenhill and Hampton-in-ArdenParish of BickenhillParishes of Bickenhill, Chelmsley Wood and ColeshillParish of Chelmsley WoodMetropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parishes of Bickenhill and Chelmsley Wood and County of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of ColeshillWithin Act limits20Within Act limits 10 Between points T4 and T5(on Sheet No. 3-005)Between points T1 and P1 (on Sheet No. 3-006)Within Act limits 15 Within Act limitsBetween points T2 and P3Within Act limits￼￼Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Between points T6 and P5Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼M42/M6 Westbound LinkWithin Act limits3540
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule175￼￼￼(1) AreaCounty of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Coleshill and Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Chelmsley WoodCounty of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Little Packington and Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of BickenhillCounty of Warwickshire District of North WarwickshireParish of Great PackingtonParish of Little PackingtonParishes of Little Packington and ColeshillParish of Coleshill(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits￼M6 Motorway and sliproadsFootpath M77Packington LaneFootpath M96Footpath M105A446 Stonebridge RoadB4438 Footpath M83 M6 MotorwayM6 Motorway to M42 Motorway link road5101520￼￼￼￼￼￼M42/M6 Eastbound link Footpath M72Footpath M76 Birmingham Road Manor DriveFootpath M56 Footpath M54 Footpath M60 Footpath M62 Footpath M63M42 Motorway and link roads between junctions 7 and 8Within Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 40
￼￼￼176High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10￼Gilson RoadGilson DriveGorsey LaneFootpath M58Footpath M57Footpath M54M6/M42 Motorway Link RoadAttleboro Lane Footpath M55A446 Lichfield RoadSubway under M6 MotorwayM42/M6 Toll Motorway between junctions 8 and 9Gilson Lane Watton Lane Gypsy Lane￼Parishes of Coleshill, Water Orton and CurdworthCounty of Warwickshire, District of North Warwickshire, Parish of Water Orton and Metropolitan Borough of Solihull, Parish of Smith’s WoodCounty of Warwickshire District of NorthWarwickshireParishes of Coleshill and Water OrtonParish of Water OrtonParish of CurdworthWithin Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limits152025￼￼￼￼Faraday AvenueEdison RoadFootpath M30Footpath M16A4097 Kingsbury RoadM42 Motorway between junctions 9 and 10Marston Lane and Byway M450Footpath M14Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 40
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule177￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of Lea MarstonParish of KingsburyParishes of Curdworth and WishawParish of WishawParishes of Wishaw and MiddletonParish of MiddletonCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettParish of Fazeley Parish of Hints(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and P1 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsBirmingham and Fazeley Canal towing pathFootpath M23 Footpath M6Church LaneOld Kingsbury Road Footpath T26Bridleway T18Byway T179Footpath M3A4091 Tamworth RoadBrick Kiln Lane Bodymoor Heath Lane Footpath T17 Crowberry Lane Church LaneFootpath T15Shirrall Drive and Bridleway Drayton Bassett 10A453 Sutton Road and Carroway Head HillBridleway Drayton Bassett 9Drayton LaneBridleway Drayton Bassett 11Footpath Fazeley 1￼5￼Within Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limits￼￼￼￼￼Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits25￼Within Act limits 30 Within Act limits￼￼Bangley Lane and Bridleway Hints 20Footpath Hints 7 Footpath Hints 20 Footpath Hints 9Within Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limits Within Act limits35
￼￼￼178High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped up(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T2Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 20Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25 Within Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsFootpath Hints 14Footpath Hints 13Footpath Hints 8Brockhurst Lane and Bridleway Hints 12Footpath Hints 19 Footpath Hints 5 Watling Street Bridleway Hints 3Bridleway Weeford 0.479 Flats LaneA51 Tamworth RoadBridleway Swinfen and Packington 9Sandy Lane and Bridleway Whittington 17Footpath Whittington 16 Bridleway Whittington 20 Footpath Whittington 16 Footpath Whittington 15 Broad LaneBrook Hay LaneWyrley and Essington Canal towing pathMarsh Lane Cappers Lane Darnford Lane Stockford Lane￼￼Parish of WeefordParishes of Swinfen and Packington and WhittingtonParish of Whittington￼￼￼Parishes of Whittington and Fradley and StreethayParish of Fradley and StreethayBridleway Streethay 8Footpath Streethay 6 Wood End LaneWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Between points T1 and T235￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule179(3)Extent of temporary stopping upBetween points T5 and T6Within Act limits 5 Within Act limits￼￼￼(1) AreaParishes of Swinfen and Packington, Fradley and Streethay and LichfieldParishes of Swinfen and Packington and LichfieldParish of King’s BromleyParish of Longdon Parish of Colton City of Birmingham(2)Highway or part to be stopped up￼Gorse Lane Footpath Alrewas 44Trent and Mersey Canal towing pathA38 Rykneld StreetA5206 London Road A5148Footpath King’s Bromley 0.392Trent and Mersey Canal towing pathA515 Lichfield RoadLichfield Road Footpath Longdon 35Footpath Colton 70 Footpath Colton 71￼Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits Within Act limitsBetween points T1 and T21015￼￼￼￼￼Water Orton RoadJavelin AvenueRight of way (not on the definitive map) south of Javelin AvenueLancaster Drive Blenheim Way Tameside Drive Orton Way Langley Drive A452 Chester Road Wanderer Walk Bromford Drive Bromford Lane Bromford Road Cuckoo RoadWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 25Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits
￼￼￼180High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — Highways Part 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upHeartlands ParkwayWatson Road EastAston Church RoadGrand Union Canal towing pathArley RoadWashwood Heath Road Cranby StreetAdderley RoadHigh StreetAlum Rock Road Crawford StreetGate StreetErskine Street Duddleston Mill Road Dollman Street Northumberland Street Viaduct StreetSt James’ PlaceLandor StreetDigbeth Branch Canal towing path (not on definitive map)Belmont Row Curzon Street Lawley Middleway New Canal Street Garrison Circus Garrison Lane Great Barr Street Derby StreetSt Andrew’s Road(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 5 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 15 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 20 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits25Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 30 Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 35￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 4 — HighwaysPart 4 — Tables relating to Part 2 of Schedule181(3)Extent of temporary stopping upWithin Act limitsBetween points T1 and P1 5 Between points T2 and P3Within Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limitsWithin Act limits 10 Between points T3 and P5Within Act limitsWithin Act limits￼￼￼(1) Area(2)Highway or part to be stopped upWatery Lane Middleway Andover StreetFazeley StreetNew Bartholomew Street Bordesley StreetB4114Masshouse LanePark StreetMoor StreetMoor Street Queensway￼SCHEDULE 5ACQUISITION OF LAND FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSESSection 4(2)The purposes for which land specified in the following table may be acquired under section 4(1) include (but are not limited to) the purpose specified in relation to that land in the third column of the table.1520￼￼AreaLondon Borough of CamdenNumber of land shown on deposited plans4, 13, 79, 9968, 69, 87, 91, 93, 162, 163, 236, 369, 401 to 411, 508, 522, 665, 704, 721, 724, 727, 750, 791, 792, 794 to 796, 801 to 805, 807 to 811, 901, 912, 978, 1017, 1051, 1058 to 106178, 110, 372, 816, 817, 819, 820, 822, 829, 834, 847, 848, 849, 852, 854, 855, 856Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction3035
￼￼￼182High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to 5 utilities apparatusInstallation of ground anchors Installation of ground anchors￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼89, 140, 14290, 151 to 154, 157, 159, 177, 180, 181363373, 374, 375, 835, 841, 860, 863, 874, 905, 906, 908, 920, 933, 940, 942, 958, 959, 960, 970, 971, 977, 982, 984, 992, 994, 996, 1000, 1001, 1003 to 1005, 1009, 1010, 1016, 1019, 1023, 1024, 1030, 1031, 1033 to 1035, 1038, 1040, 1048, 1057434, 830831838, 839973, 974, 1018, 10501, 328, 29, 48, 50, 52 to 55, 58, 78, 87, 185, 3741 to 3, 916, 19Provision of accessProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofelectricity supply system and 10 worksite and access forand maintenanceenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for and maintenance15 20environmental mitigation 25 worksite and access forworksite and access for and maintenancenew public right of way30Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼London Borough of IslingtonLondon Borough of BrentRoyal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 40 constructionProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageDiversion or installation of, or works to, 45 utilities apparatus￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes183Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamLondon Borough of EalingNumber of land shown on deposited plans5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 29, 30, 132, 156, 223, 229, 233, 265, 562, 787 to 790, 946 to 94920, 21, 35, 36, 40, 41, 44, 45, 48, 49, 52, 53, 56, 57, 60, 61, 64, 65, 68, 69, 72, 73, 76, 77, 80, 81, 84, 85, 111, 114, 125 to 127, 142, 144, 145, 152, 176, 190, 193, 194, 196, 200, 202, 204 to 206, 209, 214, 216 to 219, 221, 222, 228, 231, 232, 235, 237, 240, 242, 251, 254 to 257, 259, 267, 269, 271, 272, 274, 277, 282 to 289, 438, 439103, 106116 to 124, 150, 151, 157, 158, 165, 187, 188133 to 139, 295, 297, 298, 314, 315, 322 to 324, 396, 406, 408, 445, 456 to 461, 471, 579, 580, 716, 770, 771, 798, 799, 805 to 807, 842 to 844, 849, 867, 898, 922, 925, 926, 942, 944, 945, 957 to 964, 973 to 975, 977, 985, 9872135￼5, 6, 6712, 13, 21, 28, 29, 37, 48, 50, 63, 66, 71, 73, 75, 7677￼construction 10 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 15 20 25Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision and renewal of railway systemsfor operational purposes and drainage 30Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionReinstatement of businesses or facilities 35 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainage40 45
￼￼￼184London Borough of HillingdonHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus10Provision of environmental mitigation 15 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans1 to 16, 26 to 28, 39, 40, 68, 84, 85, 106, 107, 128 to 139, 175, 176, 190, 202, 203, 219, 224, 229 to 239, 371, 384, 387, 390, 447, 449, 452, 454, 463, 464, 476 to 478, 492, 515, 517 to 52525, 441, 442, 458, 459, 469, 471, 483 to 485, 494 to 496, 537, 713, 72025a, 470, 494a50, 51101 to 103 420, 422, 423, 426, 427 to 429, 466, 467, 482, 487, 488, 502, 504, 506377, 379, 411, 414, 415, 535412, 413, 416 to 419 424, 425, 460, 536, 540465, 511474￼453, 454￼Provision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction25Provision of worksite and access for 30 construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 40Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans496a, 498, 499, 526 to 534501, 507510545548, 550, 556 to 558, 563562564606, 614, 615, 618185Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 15Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 20Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead 25 electric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 30Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systems 35 for operational purposes and drainageProvision of new public right of wayDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, 40 utilities apparatus￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼186High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systems 5 for operational purposes and drainageProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of flood mitigation measures 25Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 30Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 35 construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans611, 613612616496, 654, 655 496a, 498557, 560, 561, 570 to 580, 583, 584, 588, 590, 591, 593, 594, 707, 714, 719, 720c558, 559￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans565, 569566 to 568, 569a603, 604, 643 to 645, 657 to 659, 665, 683, 693, 694, 698a, 720d, 723, 724, 728, 729, 736, 737, 739, 741, 742, 748, 749, 753, 767, 768, 770, 784, 786, 787, 789621622, 624, 625, 627, 628, 630 to 632, 636, 666, 669, 671, 738633, 676, 677, 679, 697, 741a, 747, 747a, 747b, 747d, 756, 756a, 761, 762a, 763 to 765, 771, 772, 774 to 778, 780 to 783642, 758663, 672187Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of electricity supply system and 5 accessProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of electricity supply system andaccess 10￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of electricity supply system and 20 accessProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenance2530Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus15
￼￼￼188High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼692726, 731, 734, 740, 745, 746751, 755759Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 5 Provision of electricity supply system andaccessProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of new public right of wayDiversion and installation of overhead 10 electric linesProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofworksite and access for worksite and access forand maintenance 15environmental mitigationworksite and access for and maintenanceenvironmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatus￼County of Buckinghamshire District of South BucksParish of Denham1, 21d, 1f11, 17, 19, 3225, 26, 28 to 31, 33, 46, 5214, 15, 23, 27 263442, 43Provision of flood mitigation measuresDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigation25Provision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 40
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes189Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼37 to 39, 47 to 4956, 7, 13, 15, 17 to 19, 21, 22, 24, 25, 27, 31, 38, 41, 44, 48, 54, 58, 65, 69, 1041223, 53, 80 32, 36, 3740, 46, 61, 63, 6449, 55, 80a, 84, 90, 94, 97, 12075107, 10911610￼Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of constructionProvision of Provision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of accessworksite and access for20environmental mitigation 25 worksite and access fordrainage and associated works drainage and associated works environmental mitigationenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forelectricity supply system and30Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 40￼
￼￼￼190High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way Diversion and installation of overhead￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1, 7, 21, 30, 31, 35161970, 75, 76, 83, 854 to 6 131134, 135, 139, 141, 142, 14767, 22, 24, 28, 34, 3710, 1127 3159, 66, 67, 74, 76, 77County of Buckinghamshire District of Chiltern Parish of Chalfont St Peter510￼Parish of Chalfont St GilesParish of Amershamelectric lines 15 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 25 Diversion or installation of, or works to,￼utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 30 Provision of environmental mitigation￼Parish of Coleshill 4Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of protective works towatercourse 40Provision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes191Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of protective works to 5 watercourseProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15￼￼￼AreaParish of Little MissendenNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼82 to 4 11, 161415, 17, 19, 20 34, 44, 47, 6348, 50, 56, 60, 69, 78 61, 7664￼Provision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofenvironmental mitigation drainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation20drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼Parish of Great Missenden3, 6, 14, 54, 60, 61, 66, 71, 72, 79, 83, 87, 89, 94, 142, 158, 174, 1784, 5, 8, 133, 135 to 13712, 17, 19, 32, 37, 42, 55, 155, 18411, 151, 15316, 18, 20, 27, 40, 41, 8523, 24, 29, 33, 75, 77, 90, 102, 114, 170, 17125, 56Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigation 25 drainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigationdrainage and associated works environmental mitigation3035new public right of way worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forDiversion and installation of overhead 40 electric lines
￼￼￼192High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans303150, 51, 96, 173, 179, 188, 1896778, 82, 140107, 120112, 117115, 157, 159 to 161, 163, 167123, 124128, 131, 139Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for5￼new public right of way environmental mitigation drainage and associated works new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationRemoval of utility apparatus Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead 25 electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes193Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼126138, 147 134145, 166162180Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 5 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for￼Parish of The Lee2, 42 to 455, 22, 24, 28, 34 8, 9, 26construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead 20 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead 30 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationReprofiling of groundProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Reprofiling of ground
￼￼￼194High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans￼11, 12, 18, 19, 3116 2732 3639, 40Provision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 5 Diversion and installation of overhead￼District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Wendover1, 3, 14, 48, 150, 153, 2335, 8, 15, 19, 59, 66 to 71, 74, 76 to 78, 80, 81, 123, 143, 147, 2207, 2519, 11, 23, 25, 50, 57, 65, 97, 98, 127, 129, 132, 146, 222, 232, 236, 238, 239, 243, 248, 250, 25718, 42, 45, 46, 60, 120, 126, 149, 151, 182, 187, 190, 192, 22424electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationReprofiling of groundDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationReprofiling of ground Reprofiling of groundProvision of worksite and access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric lines Provision ofProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofdrainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigationdrainage and associated works environmental mitigationworksite and access fordrainage and associated works253035Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans293132, 58, 108, 109, 142, 212, 214, 223, 24134, 55, 94, 124, 20435, 169, 172, 185, 205, 20638 to 41, 52, 96, 103, 110, 11147, 56, 62, 63, 165, 211, 2355461, 22164195Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 10Provision of drainage and associated worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead 15 electric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for 25 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 30 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of drainage and associated works
￼￼￼196High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans￼91, 213, 21595 100135, 136156, 159, 217171173 203219230Provision of drainage and associated works Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion and installation of overhead 10 electric linesProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 15Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of new public right of wayInstallation of ground anchorsProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 25Provision of new public right of wayDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of drainage and associated worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, 35 utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes197Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works 25 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 30 utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaDistrict of Wycombe Parish of EllesboroughNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼24, 15, 74 51013, 17, 32, 33 34, 44, 66, 7022, 23, 30, 35, 36, 38, 41, 47, 4850,51, 54to57 5253, 61 to 64, 71, 72 69, 8011, 12￼District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke Mandeville4, 21, 23, 26, 33, 34, 38, 81, 90, 100 to 102, 108, 112, 155, 157, 158, 1616, 69, 1138, 9, 94, 95, 120Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measures35
￼￼￼198High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans101822, 48, 56, 122, 132, 14424, 59, 63, 116, 149, 15125, 72, 75, 76, 78 to 80, 87, 88, 91, 98, 109, 117, 138, 1412843, 84, 103, 129616274, 92, 93, 15283Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼construction 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 10Provision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 20 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of drainage and associated works 30Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes199Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼118119123, 131, 134, 136, 140, 15012614613, 7, 9District of WycombeParish of Great and Little Kimble cum MarshDistrict of Aylesbury Parish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigation worksite and access fordrainage and associated works 10 environmental mitigationworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation 15 worksite and access fordrainage and associated worksProvision ofDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 25￼￼6, 65, 8617, 18, 23, 3227, 29, 30, 37, 69, 79, 81Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overhead3035electric lines 40 Provision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼200High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans28, 28a333536394044, 46, 53, 57, 59454748, 85, 90Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associated￼works and access for maintenance 5 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 25 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionProvision of a turning headProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans51, 556061, 726674, 75, 89 768788201Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of a turning headProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 15Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼￼Provision of Provision ofProvision of Provision of Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigation 20 drainage and associated worksflood mitigation measuresflood mitigation measures environmental mitigationdrainage and associated works 25 environmental mitigationworksite and access forDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of drainage and associated works
￼￼￼202Parish of AylesburyHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead 10 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼16, 1820 to 22, 242 to 7, 10, 11￼Parish of ColdharbourParish of Fleet Marston45, 116, 78, 9 1013, 26 14, 18, 30 15, 2116, 19 20￼Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 25 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigationdrainage and associated works 30 worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation new public right of wayenvironmental mitigation 35 worksite and access for
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes203Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated works 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans2325121, 162, 73, 793, 32, 45, 107, 128, 129 67, 9, 113, 120, 126, 1278, 10, 11, 13, 34, 36, 41, 42, 49, 51, 53, 59, 60, 67, 69, 74, 76, 81 to 83, 85, 100, 10317, 46, 52, 56, 66, 72, 78, 84, 106, 1141831, 54, 109, 112 33, 40, 58￼Parish of WaddesdonProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of accessProvision of constructionflood mitigation measures 15environmental mitigationnew public right of waydrainage and associated works environmental mitigation 20 drainage and associated worksnew public right of way environmental mitigation worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation25worksite and access for 30 environmental mitigationworksite and access forelectricity supply system and 35 worksite and access forand maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 40
￼￼￼204High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 5 works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigation 10Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼Parish of Quainton3, 35, 61, 668, 23, 59, 74, 88, 1159, 12, 14, 24, 92, 98 to 100, 133, 138, 142, 177, 182, 191, 194, 199, 203, 216, 218, 248 to 25011, 20, 27, 53, 56, 58, 62, 64, 65, 122, 125, 128, 141, 195, 206a, 222, 223, 225, 226, 232, 240, 253, 254, 261, 264, 270, 271, 27317, 75, 127, 210, 212 19AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼68, 93, 110, 111 9194 97105123Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision ofdrainage and associated works 15 worksite and access forand maintenance environmental mitigation worksite and access forflood mitigation measures environmental mitigationflood mitigation measures20￼Provision of balancing pond and associated 25 works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus3035Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 40Removal of utility apparatus
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans213132, 50, 68, 151, 219, 220, 22433, 72, 274 8754, 71, 89, 104, 110, 113, 118a, 119384046, 107, 109, 131, 146, 149, 159, 197, 24447 4993205Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Removal of utility apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measures 10Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of diversion or installation of, or20works to, utilities apparatus 25 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of a turning head 30 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of a turning headDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 35 works and access for maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measures
￼￼￼206High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans118, 176124135, 150, 155, 157, 158, 161, 164, 168, 170, 184, 233Provision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overhead￼136143160 166 173174, 175204Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associatedelectric lines 5 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of wayDiversion and installation of overhead 10 electric linesworks and access for maintenance 15 Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of new public right of wayProvision of electricity supply system andaccessDiversion and installation of overhead 20 electric linesProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance 25Provision of electricity supply system and accessProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 30 Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 35Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measures
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes207Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼206, 2072432513, 5, 10, 28, 30 20, 23, 26421 and 249 121416291, 24, 4a, 5, 7Parish of Grendon Underwoodenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of electricity supply system andaccess 5Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofdrainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 10 and maintenance￼environmental mitigation drainage and associated works environmental mitigation worksite and access for1520worksite and access for and maintenanceenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for￼Parish of Middle ClaydonParish of East ClaydonProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 35Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesand maintenance 25 worksite and access forand maintenancenew public right of wayenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 30 and maintenancenew public right of way￼￼
￼￼￼208Parish of Calvert GreenHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigation 5Provision of new public right of wayProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of new public right of way￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1, 9, 11 217 68 232425 18Parish of Steeple Claydon3, 4, 6, 12, 41, 78, 80, 110, 11124, 26, 27, 31, 33, 40, 97 8, 56, 7299a, 100, 117, 119, 120utilities apparatusProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigation 25Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of access for construction and 30 maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of access for construction and 35 maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measures Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes209Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of a turning head 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼9b 2146, 49, 52, 765160 7598, 99, 112109 124, 125 69, 71 102, 1032, 3Provision of new public right of way Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 20 Diversion or installation of, or works to,￼Parish of CharndonParish of Twyford5, 6, 13, 62, 67, 92, 101 1424, 26, 44, 49, 54utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of new public right of way 25Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of new public right of way 35 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼
￼￼￼210High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans27, 4838, 60, 81, 82, 89, 90 3947, 63, 64, 695253, 76 58, 8871, 75, 77, 83, 84, 95, 97, 99, 1007278 8087 91Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associated￼works and access for maintenance 5 Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 10Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 20Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 25 works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 35 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance Provision of new public right of way
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes211Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associated￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼941 to 46, 13, 22, 27, 30, 31, 44, 45, 54 to 56, 58, 628, 15, 28, 29, 52 1220, 21 233741, 47 to 5140, 42, 43, 61￼Parish of Preston BissettmaintenanceProvision of new public right of way Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction10works and access for maintenance 5 Provision of access for construction andProvision of environmental mitigation 15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructiondrainage and associated works environmental mitigationdrainage and associated works 20 environmental mitigationnew public right of waydrainage and associated worksworksite and access forand maintenance 25environmental mitigationdrainage and associated worksworksite and access for and maintenanceenvironmental mitigation 30 worksite and access forenvironmental mitigationworksite and access forand maintenance 35￼
￼￼￼212County of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of GodingtonCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of ChetwodeHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼5, 1268, 14, 15Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision ofenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 5 and maintenance￼1to3,8,95, 12 to 14, 22 to 24, 28, 31, 35, 42, 45, 52, 53, 55, 64, 84, 87, 921719 to 21, 95, 9625, 27, 34, 91 3041, 86, 88 515463 65worksite and access forflood mitigation measures flood mitigation measuresenvironmental mitigation101520Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofenvironmental mitigation drainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigation 25 worksite and access forand maintenance worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation 30drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of new public right of way Provision of drainage and associated worksRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation 40Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes213Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionRemoval of utility apparatus Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of flood mitigation measures 15￼￼￼AreaParish of Barton HartshornNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼71, 90 76267, 169, 10, 22 131419, 24 25, 26￼Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision of Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofnew public right of way worksite and access for20new public right of wayenvironmental mitigation 25drainage and associated works drainage and associated works environmental mitigation￼County of Oxfordshire District of CherwellParish of Newton Purcell with Shelswell1, 8, 17, 39, 49, 664, 6, 15, 16, 19, 23, 31, 34, 36, 46, 54, 8610, 22, 27, 55, 69, 75, 82, 8321, 26, 63, 67, 74, 76 32worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for drainage and associated works3035Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 40 construction
￼￼￼214High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of way 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 15Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of flood mitigation measuresDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼37, 5930, 56, 58 57, 6261647285, 88 92￼Parish of Finmere5, 9, 31, 54 7, 158, 1224, 33, 36, 37 1818a, 25, 40, 42 48Provision of constructionProvision of Provision of Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionworksite and access for new public right of wayenvironmental mitigation 25 environmental mitigationnew public right of way environmental mitigationworksite and access forworksite and access for30Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way 35 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of access for utility works
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes215Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Removal of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 15Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead 20 electric linesProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of electricity supply system andaccess 25Provision of environmental mitigation Removal of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼￼￼AreaParish of MixburyNumber of land shown on deposited plans7, 24, 26, 40 8, 1312, 17, 20, 45, 46, 57 15, 1819, 34, 43, 51 28, 37, 383131a3940a, 4941, 63 44￼52￼
￼￼￼216High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of wayProvision of balancing pond and associated 5 works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Provision of new public right of way Provision of drainage and associated worksRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measuresRemoval of utility apparatus 15 Removal of utility apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Removal of utility apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼48 53, 545262 66￼County of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Westbury11a5, 6 71419, 21 to 25, 27Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25 Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of new public right of way Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works 30 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of environmental mitigation 35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes217Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 25 electric linesRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead 30 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 40￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼￼Parish of Turweston3, 4, 45, 46 118, 13, 20, 27, 50, 68, 71, 72, 76 to 79, 83, 85, 99, 10018, 21, 89, 91 2962, 73813738, 104, 10640, 5742, 61, 6728 2930, 33 to 35, 38 18, 20
￼￼￼218High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of new public right of way 5 Provision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼43, 484965848890102, 110 109constructionProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance10Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 20 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation￼County of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of Whitfield14, 9, 13, 14Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 30 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision of drainage and associated works 35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans6219Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼￼￼￼101620, 35263017Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 25 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of accessProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of510environmental mitigationflood mitigation measuresnew public rights of waydrainage and associated works environmental mitigation 15 worksite and access fornew public right of way environmental mitigationworksite and access for 20 new public right of wayworksite and access fordrainage and associated works electricity supply system, and
￼￼￼220High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of new public right of wayProvision of flood mitigation measures 5Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 15Provision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans25272829, 37, 40, 42, 48 to 5041 4414, 6 79 121314, 15￼￼Parish of BrackleyProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionworksite and access forand maintenance 20environmental mitigationworksite and access for and maintenanceworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forworksite and access for2530Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼Parish of Radstone1, 2, 22 5, 7aProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans221Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼6, 20978, 40, 41, 4710, 17, 21, 23, 3819, 26, 32, 3327, 37a, 41a28, 29 303637, 39 46Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigation 15Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 20 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of way Removal of utility apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Removal of utility apparatus￼Parish of Greatworth1Provision of new public right of way Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of new public right of way35
￼￼￼222High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans3458, 11, 15, 75, 76 912131915a16, 17, 17a, 3818, 48, 59, 60, 63, 64, 66, 67, 71, 72, 74, 77, 80, 82, 84 to 86, 90, 91, 98Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofdrainage and associated works flood mitigation measuresenvironmental mitigation 5drainage and associated works flood mitigation measures environmental mitigation worksite and access for￼new public right of way worksite and access fornew public right of wayRemoval of utility apparatus 15 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatus 20 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of way 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction3510
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans1020, 21 2330, 70, 732425392628, 31, 32, 34, 52, 56, 83, 99223Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayProvision of drainage and associated works 5Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated works Removal of utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Removal of utility apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25Removal of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼224High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans2933 4344 57, 614, 235, 8, 11, 14 7, 915171￼￼Parish of Marston St LawrenceProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionworksite and access for 15 and maintenanceworksite and access for and maintenancenew public right of wayenvironmental mitigation 20worksite and access for environmental mitigationworksite and access for 25 worksite and access forProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 5 Removal of utility apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measuresDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼Parish of SulgraveDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of way￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes225Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigation 5Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼￼￼AreaParish of Thorpe MandevilleNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼34, 16, 48, 5418, 4715, 31, 35 25, 41, 42 2628, 33, 36, 40, 43 29, 5160, 62 6971Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 10 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigation 15Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measures 20Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼Parish of Culworth17, 8, 13, 16Provision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼226High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation 5Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of electricity supply system and accessProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of new public right of wayProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 15￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1112, 20, 23, 42 1718192122, 25, 4429 3439￼Parish of Chipping Warden and Edgcote2, 4, 9, 28, 32, 33, 95, 96, 10535, 36, 39 113, 14, 4115, 16, 24, 27, 38, 43, 48 to 50, 62, 84, 86, 87, 90, 91, 93, 97, 104, 107Provision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision of Provision ofworksite and access for and maintenanceworksite and access fordrainage and associated works 20 worksite and access fordrainage and associated worksflood mitigation measures environmental mitigation 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of flood mitigation measures Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access for construction35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes227Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1825 47 5865717294, 99Parish of Aston Le Walls1 to 3, 32 910Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 30 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 5 Provision of new public right of way￼
￼￼￼228High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 5 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenance￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1720 23, 2528, 31 35, 39￼Parish of Boddington1, 4, 11, 29, 39, 52, 54, 663, 23, 26, 27, 42, 47, 48, 50, 51, 89, 108, 1092, 40, 87, 96, 98, 1141897, 100a1038516, 56, 86 91Provision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofdrainage and associated works drainage and associated worksworksite and access for 15 environmental mitigationworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation 20 new public right of wayworksite and access forenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 25drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Provision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measuresDiversion or installation of, or works to, 35 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes229Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatus Provision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼25, 30, 57, 62, 63, 71, 72, 80, 93, 115, 116, 119, 121, 124, 12597a and 99101 1422286169 7481construction and maintenance 10Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionflood mitigation measures environmental mitigationnew public right of way 15 worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for20Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Removal of utility apparatus5￼County of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-Avon Parish of Stoneton4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 14, 16a, 28Provision of balancing pond and associated 25 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionRemoval of utility apparatus 30 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation 35
￼￼￼230High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Provision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼15 16, 181922, 24Parish of Wormleighton2, 9, 21, 35 5, 1211, 15, 17, 18, 20 1323, 252628Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 20 construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Provision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversions 40constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10 Provision of environmental mitigation￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans231Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼3134, 47505255Parish of Radbourn2, 19, 28 36constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 15 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Provision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 25Provision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of groundProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of balancing pond and associated 30 works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 5 Provision of worksite and access for￼
￼￼￼232High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of ground 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of environmental mitigation 10Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusReprofiling of ground 15 Provision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20Provision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 25 construction and maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 30Provision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 35 utilities apparatus￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans78, 8c 8b9111315 16￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes233Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measures 5 Provision of access for construction andmaintenance of utility diversions Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 10Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Reprofiling of groundProvision of drainage and associated works 15 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20Provision of worksite and access for construction￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans58d5, 19, 20, 25 to 27, 317, 12, 15, 39, 41, 42, 52 8, 1824, 28, 3229, 33, 71, 7235, 56, 62, 63, 7636, 613753, 59, 6966￼￼Parish of LadbrokeProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25 Provision of environmental mitigation￼Parish of Southam5, 31, 63, 65, 70, 72, 90, 93Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 30 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated 35 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼234High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans54, 56, 58, 60 to 62, 87 6, 9, 11113, 94, 958, 14, 10324, 3234, 39, 55, 68, 8016, 41, 53, 9128, 29 454749, 51, 52Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼construction 25 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 30 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated works 35 Provision of new public right of way
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes235Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼75100107112, 118Parish of Long Itchington1, 15, 19, 30, 35, 37, 47 2677aProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 25 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of access for construction andmaintenance of utility diversions 5 Provision of environmental mitigation￼
￼￼￼236High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼912, 49, 50, 52, 63, 64 20, 22, 31, 325348, 57 5859, 61Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Provision of access for construction andmaintenance of utility diversionsDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼Parish of Ufton28, 21, 23, 24 9Provision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans237Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼1511, 18Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Drainage and associated workProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatus￼District of Warwick Parish of Offchurch4, 6, 32, 49, 50, 51a, 54a7, 10, 95, 98, 100 111213, 19, 28, 36, 42 to 44, 53151821, 45, 58, 60, 62Provision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofdrainage and associated worksflood mitigation measures environmental mitigationworksite and access for and maintenance15environmental mitigation 20 worksite and access forand maintenance environmental mitigationworksite and access forand maintenance 25drainage and associated works environmental mitigationworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation30Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigation 35Minor highway alterationsProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼238High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans23242729, 66, 89 37, 735768, 70, 846971, 75 78, 79, 87Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼construction 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 10 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 20 works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated works Reprofiling of ground 25Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Provision of drainage and associated worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans239Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼80919247a 51bProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measures Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,￼Parish of Cubbington119, 21, 41, 46, 49, 53, 57, 61, 6523, 27, 28, 50, 52, 67 45, 6utilities apparatus Provision of a turning head Provision of a turning headProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 25 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and 35 maintenance of utility diversions
￼￼￼240High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDrainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 10Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works 15Installation of ground anchors Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 20 Provision of access for construction andmaintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼911, 14, 15323539, 4844 471, 24, 5￼Parish of Weston Under WetherleyParish of Stoneleigh1, 5, 7, 10, 13, 18, 44, 119, 123, 124, 126, 129, 130, 142a, 147, 148, 152, 152a, 1558, 27, 50, 52, 54, 94, 117, 122, 164, 165, 167, 17921, 24, 28, 29, 31, 34, 43, 77, 8322, 42, 144, 158, 163Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,30￼utilities apparatus 35 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans33, 6248, 66, 75, 96, 127, 128, 137, 138, 151, 170, 173, 174, 17755637379, 87, 112, 13984136, 14197, 100, 143 99241Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatus￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 10 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works 20 Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 30 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 35 construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 40
￼￼￼242High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 5Provision of flood mitigation measures Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 15 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works 20 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans￼104 105132 133146166, 182 171178184Parish of Kenilworth12, 3013, 16, 21 5, 6, 23, 25new public right of way environmental mitigationworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for3035Provision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionnew public right of wayenvironmental mitigation 25 worksite and access for￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes243Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans9, 11, 15204, 6, 9, 13, 14, 23, 37, 43, 48, 65, 73, 75, 82, 977, 19, 59, 63 11, 212829, 3132 3335 7277, 80 98￼Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼Parish of Burton Greenworksite and access fornew public right of way 10 environmental mitigationworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation 15 worksite and access forconstruction 5Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionworks and access for maintenance 20 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 25 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated works 30Provision of new public right of wayReinstatement of businesses or facilitiesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayProvision of new public right of way 35 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of new public right of wayProvision ofProvision of balancing pond and associatedenvironmental mitigation￼
￼￼￼244District of North Warwickshire Parish of Great PackingtonParish of Little PackingtonHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1, 67, 82410, 12, 15, 16 17, 19510￼￼Parish of Coleshill1c1f, 1g, 1r1,2to5, 127, 134, 148, 150, 272, 304, 410, 435,Diversion and installation of overhead 15 electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion and installation of overhead7, 12, 13, 112, 136, 139, 145, 156, 160, 204, 306, 397, 408, 445, 479, 514works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus33, 35 to288, 381, 433, 454, 455, 482a, 540, 556, 558, 560, 561, 565, 567, 585, 5873848, 52, 58, 59, 63, 68, 101, 102, 106, 278, 295, 296, 365, 371, 413, 420, 569, 571, 578, 581, 584, 589, 5913035Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 4037, 40, 41, 85,electric lines 25 Provision of balancing pond and associatedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans50116, 124, 162, 174, 176, 177, 179, 181, 240, 241, 244, 248, 300, 302, 309, 320, 325, 326, 357, 367, 372, 428, 484, 509, 510, 51951, 440, 477, 49573 54674, 321, 452, 54675, 312, 322, 377, 391, 396245Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction15Diversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationRemoval of existing utilities Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 25 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way35
￼￼￼246High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 20 electric linesProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 25 electric linesProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans77, 87, 90, 91, 152, 157, 548103, 112b￼92127a108a, 310, 315, 354, 501, 506 to 508, 580100, 427
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans108164283, 289, 297, 335, 346, 366, 369188195, 196199247, 257253, 388, 416, 451, 459, 460, 502308, 318, 467247Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 5 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for construction15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead line equipment 25Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead line equipmentProvision of balancing pond and associated 30 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead line equipmentProvision of environmental mitigation35Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 40
￼￼￼248High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProtective measures for properties beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead line 5 equipmentProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 20Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead line 25 equipmentProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of way 30 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of way￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans488, 490, 493, 497, 499 358404, 409432412419, 517481￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes249Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 10 utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 15 utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 20 construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead line equipment 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼491511, 559526593439, 485, 486, 554492, 500￼Parish of Water Orton6, 132
￼￼￼250High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 5 construction￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans9, 10, 27, 28, 37, 40, 43a, 8212, 13, 42, 50, 57, 64, 65, 67 to 69, 7423, 34, 35, 38, 39, 41, 77a4344, 89, 126, 130, 142485253, 54, 56 76100, 118119, 123Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionReinstatement of businesses or facilities10￼Provision of worksite and access for 15 constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated 20 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 25 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 30 construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 35Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes251Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead 5 electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead 15 electric linesProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 20￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼124, 129, 139131, 145, 146, 149 138133, 140, 143155￼Parish of Curdworth1, 49, 67, 70, 72, 77, 78, 80, 106, 21523, 6, 7, 113, 201, 202, 223, 241, 2445, 8, 9, 11, 15, 37, 39, 40, 43, 51, 58, 59, 61, 96, 102, 153a, 168, 170, 174, 186, 1871316, 21 to 23, 34, 38, 57, 81, 114, 117, 118, 121, 128, 137, 140, 141, 142, 149, 152, 155, 156, 160, 192, 20010, 25 to 28, 31, 32, 45, 48, 69Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines25Provision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigation35Diversion and installation of overhead 40 electric lines
￼￼￼252High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 5 electric lines￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans35, 191, 19450, 210, 216, 219, 220 to 222, 225 to 227, 229, 231, 235, 236, 238, 240, 243, 245, 24651a, 6865, 667182, 83, 90 to 9288, 209, 233, 247 98, 101, 10399, 103a108a153, 164, 251, 254, 256228 249Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenance￼10Provision of environmental mitigation 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 20 construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of new public right of wayInstallation of ground anchorsInstallation of ground anchors 30Provision of access for utility works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of access for utility works Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35 Provision of environmental mitigationRemoval of utility apparatus Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes253Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Provision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 15 works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new vehicular right on existingpublic right of way 25Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 30 works and access for maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of flood mitigation measures￼￼￼AreaParish of Lea MarstonNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼2522551 to 4, 13, 16 12, 1417, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 35, 37, 41, 54, 55, 59, 61, 65, 7118, 7844, 47, 49, 68 666772, 73 7425, 6 9, 11￼￼Parish of KingsburyParish of WishawParish of Middleton4, 5, 108￼￼
￼￼￼254High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans11, 27, 37, 39, 47, 72 to 74, 87, 93, 95, 99, 101 to 103, 114, 115, 121, 125 to 127, 131, 134, 148, 153, 156, 157, 160, 164, 167, 171, 17513, 10021, 30, 32 25, 110, 1693138, 6641 5257, 58, 135, 137, 17475 1071125￼Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of flood mitigation measures 10Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 20Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of flood mitigation measures Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25 Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 30new public right of way environmental mitigationflood mitigation measuresworksite and access for 35 and maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes255Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 5 construction and maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 15￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼113124, 129128176￼County of Staffordshire District of LichfieldParish of Drayton Bassett2, 3, 4a, 35, 38, 40, 43, 45, 46, 49, 52, 54, 55, 65, 75, 100287, 23, 29, 50, 86 912, 13, 15 161922, 2430Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2025Provision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 35 Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 40Provision of environmental mitigationworksite and access for and maintenanceenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forand maintenance 30 worksite and access for
￼￼￼256High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 10Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 15 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 20 Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 25Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans3353, 92, 94, 10258, 59, 63, 68, 71, 809399 106109, 1171143, 6, 8￼￼Parish of Fazeley Parish of Hintsconstruction 30 Diversion and installation of overheadProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼15, 17, 18, 87, 88 20electric linesProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans21, 53, 59, 63, 68, 72 to 74, 81, 122, 128, 141, 145 to 14823, 125, 12924, 50, 77, 84, 110, 15425, 2830, 33, 38, 45, 47, 48 3537, 3955, 6258 6165, 14370257Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for5￼￼￼￼construction 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 15Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of new public right of way 20 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2530Provision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofnew public right of way environmental mitigationnew public right of way worksite and access fordrainage and associated worksImplementation of woodland management measuresProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, 35 utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼258High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of new public right of wayProvision of balancing pond and associated 5 works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of flood mitigation measures 10 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans71 7578 808286 9496101116 to 118, 123Provision of new public right of way Provision of balancing pond and associated￼works and access for maintenance 15 Provision of new public right of wayImplementation of woodland management measuresProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 20Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of way Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 25 Provision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes259Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 25Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionProvision of new public right of way￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼131153, 155 157, 1597, 24, 27 12, 16, 2114 2022￼Parish of Weeford￼Parish of Swinfen and Packington11, 16, 2311a12, 15, 292017a, 18a, 19, 22
￼￼￼260High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 15 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 20Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusImplementation of woodland management measuresImplementation of woodland management 25 measuresProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Implementation of woodland management measuresProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 35 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 40￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans￼￼Parish of Whittington5, 10, 17, 63, 6719, 20, 23 25, 9228, 29, 31, 99, 103, 105, 107, 109, 11232, 47, 48 37, 4142, 4652, 54, 100, 113, 115, 116 58, 64, 66, 94, 98, 11479, 91, 97, 10425, 28, 32 33, 34, 42 36, 3937
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes261Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 10Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 20￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼101811404 to 6￼Parish of ElfordParish of Fradley and Streethay4, 18, 27, 65, 67, 71, 72, 75 to 77, 84, 87, 152, 157, 158, 191, 293, 295, 298, 300, 303, 30522, 31, 47, 48, 53, 55, 63, 64, 74, 78, 85, 93, 94, 100, 111, 114, 116, 164, 208, 209, 227, 265, 267, 272, 279, 280, 283, 30829, 623944, 150, 155, 184583, 17, 23, 32, 33, 35, 36, 40, 43, 81, 125 to 12786, 142, 201, 202, 269￼Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction25Provision of drainage and associated works 30 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines35Diversion or installation of, or works to, 40 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction
￼￼￼262High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionRemoval of existing utilities 5 Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 10 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 15 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new public right of wayDiversion and installation of overhead 20 electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of new vehicular right on existingpublic right of way 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans104107108124133138, 231, 232, 243, 247, 271141145, 203, 207, 210, 215, 290, 302, 307151, 199Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access for￼construction 30 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35 Provision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans187188212, 254236 238239241245 249250282263Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works 10 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 15Provision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionImplementation of woodland management 25 measuresImplementation of woodland management measuresDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 30Provision of worksite and access for construction￼￼￼￼Provision of access for construction Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenanceProvision of electricity supply system and access
￼￼￼264Parish of LongdonParish of King’s BromleyHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 5 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans1, 418, 35a, 42, 119, 160, 185, 186, 19419, 32, 43, 44, 98, 100 24, 3739, 582526, 48, 52, 84, 121 4651, 165￼2864 to 6, 8 to 10, 13, 14￼￼construction and maintenance 15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigation worksite and access forworksite and access for20environmental mitigation 25 worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation drainage and associated worksand maintenance Minor highway alterationsProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35 Minor highways alterationsProvision of environmental mitigation
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans55265Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼5659, 66, 71, 72, 7961, 78, 81, 105, 126, 146 62, 65, 140A, 192, 192b 73748283, 9085, 86, 11188constructionProvision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 10Provision of environmental mitigation Removal of existing utilitiesProvision of new public right of way Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of drainage and associated works 15 Diversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of new public right of wayRemoval of existing utilities 25Provision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated worksDiversion and installation of overhead 30 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 35Provision of access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 5 Provision of worksite and access for
￼￼￼266High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of new public right of way Removal of existing utilitiesProvision of worksite and access for 5 constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 15Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of flood mitigation measures 30 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans8991, 195, 19695, 111a, 168, 187102106114116118￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans267Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 5 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated 10 works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to,utilities apparatus 15Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for 20 constructionProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion and installation of overhead 25 electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 30 constructionProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of new public right of way 35 Provision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance Provision of environmental mitigation￼￼￼￼124128, 130138, 139, 142140148161, 171193￼
￼￼￼268Parish of Armitage with HandsacreParish of ColtonBorough of StaffordParish of ColwichMetropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BerkswellHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of drainage and associated works Provision of worksite and access for￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼1, 411, 14, 1518, 20, 2410, 16, 1724construction and maintenance 10 Provision and renewal of railway systems5￼￼￼2, 4, 286,8,9,10,12,17,6724, 26, 26a, 47, 54, 71, 72 31353637for operational purposes and drainageProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines1520Provision of environmental mitigation 25 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation 30 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of electricity supply system and 35 accessProvision of environmental mitigationDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of electricity supply system and 40 access
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans424353 555960, 64 and 6963127, 128, 134, 145, 164a, 165c, 209, 210129, 136, 167, 168a, 168c, 169, 170, 172a, 174, 185, 186, 188, 191, 193, 205, 207, 216, 218, 219, 231, 236130a, 142 143140, 141, 162, 175, 206, 211, 220, 230269Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼Provision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 5 Provision of new public right of wayProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstructionInstallation of ground anchors 10Provision of Provision ofProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionnew public right of way environmental mitigationdrainage and associated works worksite and access for15new public right of way worksite and access fornew public right of waydrainage and associated works 20worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation drainage and associated worksenvironmental mitigation 25 worksite and access forProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageProvision of a worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 35Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenance30
￼￼￼270High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utility apparatus￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼147, 151, 152, 153, 155158172, 221, 222195, 204, 208, 238223, 2333Provision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigation flood mitigation measuresworksite and access forand maintenance 10flood mitigation measures worksite and access forenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 15Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼Parish of MeridenParish of Hampton-in- Arden12 4, 67, 15, 16, 16b, 17, 17b, 18, 27 to 31, 37, 50, 52, 54, 628, 26, 34, 45, 55916a, 17a, 18a22Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of Provision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision of constructionenvironmental mitigationworksite and access for 20worksite and access for and maintenancenew public right of way 25 environmental mitigation environmental mitigationworksite and access forworksite and access for 30￼Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of drainage and associated works 35 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenance 40
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans271Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼24, 43 2536, 4135, 42464749Parish of Bickenhill2, 36, 7, 10, 18, 22, 23, 29, 31, 32, 35, 46, 48, 51, 57, 60, 61, 69, 71a, 74 to 76, 8537, 40, 41b, 62, 69a4112 11construction and maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 10 construction and maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of balancing pond and associated 15 works and access for maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 20 utility apparatusProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for 25 constructionProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead 35 electric linesProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 40Minor highway alterationsProvision of a turning headProvision of new vehicular right on existingpublic right of way 5 Provision of worksite and access for￼
￼￼￼272High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageDiversion or installation of, or works to, 5 utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overheadelectric lines 10Provision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenance￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans￼42a, 42b, 42c, 57a, 57b, 57c58 7171b8587 90889191aProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 15 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 20 Diversion and installation of overheadelectric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, 25 utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access forconstruction 30Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceDiversion or installation of, or works to, 35 utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusReinstatement of businesses or facilities Reinstatement of businesses or facilities 40￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposes273Purpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of overhead 5 electric lines￼￼￼AreaParish of Chelmsley WoodCity of BirminghamNumber of land shown on deposited plans1a3a, 4b, 4c5a 12899a and 9b13, 15, 29, 32, 3314, 2816, 31, 54 to 56, 69, 78, 157m, 157n, 157p, 157q, 157s, 159, 163, 194, 195, 196, 214 to 216, 218, 281, 282, 300h, 308, 315, 316, 320, 327, 328, 330, 353, 364, 385, 386, 401￼6￼Provision of constructionProvision of Provision ofProvision of constructionProvision ofProvision of constructionworksite and access forenvironmental mitigation environmental mitigation 10 worksite and access forenvironmental mitigation worksite and access for15Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of flood mitigation measuresProvision of environmental mitigation 20Provision of flood mitigation measuresDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for 25 constructionProvision of flood mitigation measures Provision of environmental mitigationProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of flood mitigation measures Provision of worksite and access for30construction 35 40
￼￼￼274High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesPurpose for which land may be acquired or usedProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead 5 electric linesProvision of environmental mitigationProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of environmental mitigation 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstructionDiversion or installation of, or works to,20Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision and renewal of railway systemsfor operational purposes and drainage 25￼￼￼Area Number of land shown on deposited plans23, 24, 2726 4146, 151, 157r, 245, 264, 267, 300a, 300b, 300c, 478, 47963a, 63b, 63c, 63d, 63f, 63g, 63h, 63i, 63j, 63k, 85a, 85b, 85c, 85d, 85e, 85f, 85g, 85h, 85i, 85j, 85k, 87c, 87e, 87f, 87g, 87h, 87i67102a, 102b, 102c, 102d, 157d, 157f, 157h, 157i, 157k, 246, 248, 251a, 251b, 251c, 251d, 251e, 251f, 251g, 251h, 251j, 251k, 251n, 261, 263157c, 157e, 157g, 274a, 322, 355, 363, 376223268269, 271 to 273, 324, 419utility apparatus 15 Reinstatement of businesses or facilities￼Diversion or installation of, or works to, utility apparatusProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainage30Provision of worksite and access forconstruction 35Provision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systems for operational purposes and drainageDiversion or installation of, or works to, 40 utility apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 5 — Acquisition of land for particular purposesArea Number of land shown on deposited plans275Purpose for which land may be acquired or used￼￼￼￼300d, 300e19, 304, 305, 306, 326, 326a332, 334, 339, 340, 345, 346, 360, 366, 379, 384, 387, 388, 395367, 368437444 317SCHEDULE 6 Section 4(5) ACQUISITION OF LAND: APPLICATION OF COMPULSORY PURCHASE LEGISLATIONLand Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 (c. 18)Removal of utility apparatusProvision of balancing pond and associatedworks and access for maintenance 5 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceProvision and renewal of railway systemsfor operational purposes and drainage 10 Provision of worksite and access forconstruction and maintenanceProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of a turning head 15 Provision of electricity supply system and￼City of Manchester1 to 6accessMinor highway alterations Modification to depot201 The Land Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 does not apply to the acquisitionof land under section 4(1). 25Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (c. 56)2 (1)(2) Omit section 4 (time for exercise of compulsory purchase powers).In its application by virtue of section 4(3), the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 has effect as if it were subject to the following modifications.(3) In section 11(1) (power to enter on and take possession of land the subject of 30 a notice to treat after giving not less than 14 days’ notice)—(a) in a case where the notice to treat relates only to the acquisition of subsoil or under-surface of land or an easement or other right over land, for “fourteen days” substitute “one month’s”, and(b) in any other case, for “fourteen days” substitute “three months’”. 35(4) In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
￼￼￼276Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (c. 66)3 (1)In its application by virtue of section 4(4), the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 has effect as if it were subject to the following modifications.High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 6 — Acquisition of land: application of compulsory purchase legislation￼“section 4 of this Act” substitute “section 10(1) of the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act 2014”.(5) In Schedule 3 (alternative procedures for obtaining rights of entry), omit paragraph 3(3) (requirement as to sureties in relation to bond for compensation). 5(2) In section 3 (preliminary notices), for subsection (1) substitute— 10“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 below with respect to any land which is subject to a compulsory purchase order the acquiring authority shall include the particulars specified in subsection (3) below in a notice which is—(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with 15 respect to which the declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession), and(b) published in the London Gazette.”(3) In subsection (2) of section 3, for “(1)(b)” substitute “(1)”.(4) In that section, omit subsections (5) and (6) and at the end insert— 20“(7) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if—(a) the person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, whether in possession or reversion, or(b) the person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the 25 land under a lease or agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month.”(5) In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)—(a) in subsection (1), after “publication” insert “in the London Gazette”,and 30(b) omit subsection (2).(6) ReferencestotheCompulsoryPurchaseAct1965aretobereadasreferences to that Act as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1).Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67) 354 (1) Section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (assessment of compensationin relation to compulsory purchase where unnecessary things done withview to obtaining compensation) has effect in relation to a compulsory purchase under this Act as if it were a compulsory purchase for the purposesof that Act. 40(2) Parts2and3ofSchedule2totheAcquisitionofLandAct1981(exceptionof minerals from compulsory purchase and regulation of working of mines or minerals underlying an authorised undertaking) have effect in relation to land to which section 4(1) applies as if it were comprised in a compulsory
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 6 — Acquisition of land: application of compulsory purchase legislation277￼purchase order providing for the incorporation with that order of those Parts of that Schedule.(3) Intheirapplicationbyvirtueofsub-paragraph(2),Parts2and3ofSchedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 have effect as if—(a) references to the acquiring authority, except the second reference in 5 paragraph 6, were to the nominated undertaker, and(b) references to the undertaking were to the undertaking which the nominated undertaker is authorised by this Act to carry on.SCHEDULE 7 Section 5(2)ACQUISITION OF RIGHTS IN LAND: POWER TO IMPOSE RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS 10￼￼AreaLondon Borough of CamdenNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which restrictive covenant may be imposedProtection above tunnels215, 218, 224 to 228, 230 to 235, 238 to 240, 242 to 248, 253 to 255, 257 to 287, 310 to 343, 345 to 349, 391, 393 to 400, 413 to 419, 425 to 427, 430, 431, 436 to 444, 447 to 471, 474, 476 to 507, 510 to 521, 523 to 608, 610 to 642, 645 to 647, 650, 653 to 655, 657, 660 to 663, 666 to 679, 682 to 685, 688, 689, 692, 695, 696, 700 to 702, 709, 710, 714, 718, 720, 723, 729 to 740, 744, 747, 748, 752 to 754, 756 to 765, 769, 778 to 780, 81411,13to57,59 to247, 249 to 2673,5to13,15to24, 26,30to 34, 46, 47, 62, 63, 65 to 68, 70 to76,79to86,89, 93, 101, 102, 109, 111 to 118, 120 to 140, 142 to 179, 181, 182, 188, 192 to 195, 197, 199 to 217, 219 to 240, 242, 246 to 268, 270 to 311, 313, 315 to 325, 328 to 367, 369, 380 to 384, 386 to 389, 392, 393, 39614, 17, 18, 201 to 4, 18￼￼City of Westminster London Borough of BrentRoyal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamProtection above tunnels Protection above tunnelsProtection above tunnels Protection above tunnels15 20 253035 4045￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼278High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 7 — Acquisition of rights in land: power to impose restrictive covenants￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which restrictive covenant may be imposedProtection above tunnels￼360 to 364, 366 to 368, 372, 374, 377 to 386, 391, 398, 399, 401 to 405, 411, 414 to 430, 432 to 437, 440 to 444, 446 to 450, 463 to 465, 467 to 469, 472 to 481, 483 to 491 493 to 513, 521 to 526, 540 to 553, 557 to 561, 581, 583 to 639, 641 to 644 ,646 to 659, 661, 663, 664, 670 to 674, 682 to 687, 689, 699, 700, 702 to 707, 712 to 715, 718 to 764, 773 to 775, 791, 792, 794 to 797, 801, 812 to 814, 822, 823, 825, 831 to 840, 846, 848, 851 to 866, 869, 870, 884 to 894, 896, 900 to 921, 924, 927, 929 to 941, 952, 971a, 978, 980 to 983, 986, 991 to 999, 1001, 1006, 1008 to 1012, 1016 to 1026, 1031, 1032, 1034 to 103619,21,29, 31to35,43to45, 53,64to67,70 to73,79 to 83, 86 to 95, 98, 108 to 116, 140 to 154, 155a, 161 to 174, 176a, 178 to 182, 183a, 186, 188, 189, 192, 194 to 196, 207 to 213, 221 to 223, 225 to 228, 249 to 347, 350 to 360, 362 to 364, 36920, 26, 28, 30, 33, 35, 39, 42, 50 to 52, 83, 85, 86, 99, 100, 1025, 1312, 15, 16, 19 to 21, 35, 36, 36a,42,48to50,52to55,60, 62, 63, 68, 69, 73, 80 to 8212, 22, 2332 to 34, 43, 48, 51 to 65, 67 to 69, 74, 79, 81, 84, 86 to 887,8,10to45, 47to58, 60 to 73, 81, 86, 90, 92, 97, 100, 103 to 1266, 721 to 24, 27 to 29, 33, 35, 39 to 43London Borough of Ealing￼London Borough of HillingdonCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversCounty of Buckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of AmershamDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WaddesdonDistrict of ChilternParish of Chalfont St. PeterParish of Chalfont St. GilesParish of ColeshillParish of Little MissendenProtection above tunnels5 10 15 20 2530￼Preservation of ground 35 reprofilingPreservation of ground reprofilingProtection above tunnels 40 Preservation of ground￼￼reprofiling 45 Protection above tunnels￼￼Protection above tunnelsProtection above tunnels Protection above tunnels50￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 7 — Acquisition of rights in land: power to impose restrictive covenants279￼￼￼AreaCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on- AvonParish of WormleightonParish of StonetonParish of RadbournParish of LadbrokeDistrict of Warwick Parish of OffchurchDistrict of North Warwickshire Parish of ColeshillParish of MiddletonCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettParish of WhittingtonCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on- AvonParish of Long ItchingtonCity of BirminghamNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which restrictive covenant may be imposedPreservation of ground reprofilingPreservation of ground reprofiling￼33, 45, 51, 572644, 1114, 16, 4641823, 86, 136, 138, 141, 142, 147, 154486, 9028, 29, 38, 40 to 43, 4579, 93 to 95, 97 to 102, 103, 106, 107, 111, 112, 114 to 121, 123 to 131, 133 to 150, 152 to 157, 177 to 1805￼￼Preservation of groundreprofiling 10Preservation of ground reprofilingPreservation of ground reprofilingPreservation of ground 15 reprofilingPreservation of ground reprofilingPreservation of ground 20 reprofilingPreservation of ground reprofilingProtection above tunnels 25￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Protection above tunnels30￼
￼￼￼280High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorilySCHEDULE 8 Section 5(3) LAND IN WHICH ONLY RIGHTS MAY BE ACQUIRED COMPULSORILY￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquiredOperation and maintenance of 5 plant29a120 to 139483, 485, 722, 789, 790870 78375, 377, 378249, 388, 389, 390, 392 to 395517, 765 to 769, 875, 895, 990, 1027 to 1029666, 66736 to 38, 46 to 49, 113 to 116, 117 to 127, 241 to 248, 378, 680, 715, 718, 720b, 730695, 721, 732, 752, 766, 767a, 769, 783a, 785, 788, 791722, 7251b, 1c, 1e, 1h70, 781, 531, 36, 37, 38￼London Borough of CamdenRoyal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamLondon Borough of Brent London Borough of EalingLondon Borough of HillingdonCounty of Buckinghamshire District of South Bucks Parish of DenhamDistrict of Chiltern Parish of AmershamParish of Little MissendenPassage for emergency use Installation of ground anchorsProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionaccess for utilityaccess forand maintenanceaccess for10￼￼access for 15 and maintenanceaccess forand maintenance￼￼access foraccess for utilityaccess foraccess for utility 25access forand maintenance 3020￼access for access for utilityaccess foraccess foraccess forand maintenance3540￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily281￼￼￼AreaParish of Great MissendenDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of QuaintonNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquired￼1, 238, 44 to 47, 141 148, 165, 16882, 108, 114, 116, 119a, 121, 129, 130, 147, 148, 217, 252, 256132, 134, 137, 139, 167, 246, 268, 269, 269a, 269b, 275a170a, 180, 201 213, 221, 229, 2472 to 136a, 7, 10, 11, 12, 182, 3, 5a, 7a14a25, 44, 6833, 35, 96, 105, 106 98, 104511, 53, 57, 60 24 to 261, 2, 34, 11, 13, 16 to 21￼￼Parish of Woodham Parish of HogshawParish of East ClaydonParish of Grendon UnderwoodParish of Steeple Claydon Parish of TwyfordParish of Preston BissettCounty of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of GodingtonProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for utility worksProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for utility worksProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceofofof51015202530354045￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼282High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquired￼13, 16, 17 56, 58 to 6016, 42 291431757274551b, 7, 9a, 25, 31, 33, 35 394, 6, 7, 10, 11, 18, 26, 36, 945766 to 7012, 29, 3029, 30Parish of FinmereParish of MixburyCounty of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of EvenleyParish of BoddingtonParish of BrackleyParish of Chipping Warden and EdgcoteParish of GreatworthParish of Thorpe MandervilleParish of CulworthCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of TurwestonParish of ChetwodeParish of Barton HartshornDistrict of Chiltern Parish of The LeeProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for constructionProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceof ofofofofof51015202530354045￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily283￼￼￼AreaDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WendoverDistrict of Wycombe Parish of EllesboroughDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke MandevilleParish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellParish of Fleet MarstonParish of WaddesdonCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on- AvonParish of WormleightonParish of Stoneton Parish of Radbourn Parish of LadbrokeNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquired￼26, 30141, 253 to 2564a, 65, 82 40, 49, 59, 675, 57, 85 137, 1391, 113, 77, 78 923 2286115 to 11819, 29, 30, 31a 39208a, 3114, 16, 17 64, 70Provision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of worksaccess foraccess forand maintenanceaccess for utilityaccess forand maintenanceaccess forand maintenanceaccess for utilityaccess for utility510152025of 303540￼￼￼Provision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for constructionProvision of access for maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsof of of￼￼￼￼￼￼Provision of new public right ofway 45￼
￼￼￼284High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquiredProvision of access forconstruction and maintenance ofutility diversions 5￼38, 66, 67, 69, 88, 98, 102, 104, 108, 10944 and 50 1, 2, 33, 18, 217271990, 95142, 143a, 145, 146a22, 2610, 24, 25, 39, 54, 60, 7130, 34 681t47, 268, 270, 319, 557, 585a109, 111 254, 433a498Parish of SouthamParish of Long ItchingtonDistrict of Warwick Parish of OffchurchParish of Cubbington Parish of StoneleighParish of Kenilworth Parish of Burton GreenDistrict of North Warwickshire Parish of ColeshillProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of new public right of wayProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversions1015￼￼￼￼Provision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenance of utility diversionsof 2025￼￼Provision of access for construction and maintenance utility diversionsProvision of access for utility worksof 30Provision of new public right ofway 35Provision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access for utilityworks 40Provision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of access forconstruction and maintenance ofutility diversions 45Provision of access for construction￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily285￼￼￼AreaParish of Water Orton Parish of CurdworthParish of Wishaw Parish of MiddletonCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettParish of Fazeley Parish of HintsNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquired15017, 29, 46, 108, 157, 230, 232a, 258841, 2, 3, 6b, 8, 14a, 192, 3, 28, 29 68a20, 20a, 21, 39, 101, 107, 1153441, 57, 1242, 4, 5, 712, 19, 26, 27, 29 1365614024, 35, 43, 5043, 141a, 141c141b, 142, 142a, 142b, 143a, 1447, 8, 9, 10, 111 and 2￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Parish of Swinfen and PackingtonParish of WhittingtonParish of Elford Parish of LichfieldProvision of access forconstruction and maintenance ofutility diversions 5Provision of access for utility worksProvision of access forconstruction and maintenance ofutility diversions 10Provision of access for utility worksProvision of access for utility worksProvision of access for 15 construction and maintenanceProvision of access for utility worksProvision of access for 20 construction and maintenanceProvision of new vehicular right on existing public right of wayProvision of access for utilityworks 25Provision of access for utility worksProvision of access for construction and maintenanceProvision of new vehicular right 30 on existing public right of wayProvision of access for construction and maintenance.Provision of new vehicular righton existing public right of way 35Provision of access for utility worksProvision of new vehicular right on existing public right of wayProvision of access for utility 40 worksProvision of access for utility worksProvision of access for utilityworks 45￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼286High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily￼￼￼AreaNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquired￼1937, 41, 50, 54, 60, 128, 129, 144, 168, 169, 229, 234, 284, 306, 311 to 31522512, 37, 11 1, 22 and 320, 22, 68, 83a, 97, 110, 123, 149, 162, 166, 18427, 34, 45, 140b, 192a15, 1825, 44, 46, 70, 73 1352294, 514 to 16, 33, 38, 39 41a42 to 45, 46aParish of Fradley and StreethayParish of AlrewasParish of Curborough and ElmhurstParish of LongdonParish of King’s BromleyParish of ColtonMetropolitan Borough of SolihullParish of BerkswellParish of BickenhillProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of worksProvision of constructionProvision of constructionaccess for utilityaccess for 5 and maintenanceaccess foraccess forand maintenanceaccess forand maintenance10￼￼￼access for 15 and maintenanceaccess for utilityaccess foraccess forand maintenanceaccess for utility20￼￼access for 25 and maintenanceaccess for utilityaccess for 30 and maintenance￼access for Provision of access for￼maintenance 35 Provision of access forconstruction and maintenanceProvision of access for construction and maintenanceDiversion and installation of 40 overhead electric linesProvision of access for construction￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 8 — Land in which only rights may be acquired compulsorily287Provision of access for 5 construction and maintenance￼￼￼AreaCity of BirminghamNumber of land shown on deposited plansPurpose for which rights may be acquiredProvision of access for construction and maintenance￼￼Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 and compensation enactments12 (1)Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (referred to in this Schedule as 10 “CPA 1965”), as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1), and the enactments relating to compensation for the compulsory purchase of land, apply to a compulsory acquisition under section 4(1) by virtue of section 5—(a) with the modifications specified in paragraph 2, and 15(b) with such other modifications as may be necessary.The modifications referred to in paragraph 1(a) are as follows.17, 18 307SCHEDULE 9Section 5(6) ACQUISITION OF RIGHTS IN LAND: APPLICATION OF COMPULSORY PURCHASE LEGISLATION(2) References in CPA 1965 to land are, in appropriate contexts, to be read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including references to— 20(a) the right acquired or to be acquired or (as the case may be) the restrictive covenant imposed or to be imposed, or(b) the land over which the right is, or is to be, exercisable or (as the case may be) the restrictive covenant is, or is to be, enforceable.(3) For section 7 of CPA 1965 substitute— 25“7 Measure of compensation in case of purchase of new right orimposition of new restrictive covenantIn assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authorityunder this Act, regard shall be had, not only to the extent (if any) towhich the value of the land over which the right is acquired or the 30 restrictive covenant is imposed is depreciated by the acquisition ofthe right or the imposition of the covenant, but also to the damage (ifany) to be sustained by the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or injuriously affecting thatother land by the exercise of the powers conferred by this or the 35 special Act.”(4) In section 8 of CPA 1965 (provisions as to divided land), for subsection (1) substitute—“(1) This subsection applies where—(a) a notice to treat in respect of a right over, or restrictive 40covenant affecting, land consisting of a house, building or manufactory or of a park or garden belonging to a house
￼￼￼288High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 9 — Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislation(“the relevant land”) has been served on a person undersection 5 of this Act,(b) in consequence of the service of the notice, a question ofdisputed compensation in respect of the acquisition of theright or imposition of the covenant would, apart from this 5 section, fall to be determined by the Upper Tribunal, and(c) before the Upper Tribunal has determined that question, the person on whom the notice has been served satisfies the Upper Tribunal that the relevant conditions are met.(1A) The relevant conditions are— 10(a) that the person has an interest which the person is able andwilling to sell in the whole of the relevant land,(b) where the relevant land consists of a house, building or manufactory, that it cannot be made subject to the right or covenant without material detriment to it, and 15(c) where the relevant land consists of a park or garden belonging to a house, that it cannot be made subject to the right or covenant without seriously affecting the amenity or convenience of the house.(1B) Where subsection (1) above applies— 20(a) the compulsory purchase order shall, in relation to the person on whom the notice to treat has been served—(i) cease to authorise the acquisition of the right or imposition of the covenant to which the notice relates,and 25(ii) be deemed to authorise the acquisition of that person’s interest in the whole of the relevant land including, where the land consists of a park or garden belonging to a house, the house, and(b) the notice to treat shall be deemed to have been served in 30 respect of that interest on such date as the Upper Tribunal directs.(1C) Any question as to the extent of the land in which the compulsory purchase order is deemed to authorise the purchase of an interest byvirtue of subsection (1B)(a)(ii) of this section shall be determined by 35 the Upper Tribunal.(1D) Where the Upper Tribunal determines that the person on whom anotice to treat has been served has satisfied the Upper Tribunal as mentioned in subsection (1)(c) of this section, the acquiring authoritymay withdraw the notice at any time within the period of six weeks 40 beginning with the date of the determination.(1E) Subsection (1D) of this section is without prejudice to any other power of the acquiring authority to withdraw the notice to treat.”(5) The following provisions of CPA 1965 (which state the effect of a deed poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons 45 with interests in the land)—section 9(4) (failure of owners to convey),paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity), paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners), and￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 9 — Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislation289￼paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the landwhich are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be acquired compulsorily or the benefit of the covenant which is to be imposedis vested absolutely in the acquiring authority. 5(6) Section 11 of CPA 1965 (powers of entry) is modified so as to secure that,where the acquiring authority have served notice to treat in respect of anyright or restrictive covenant as well as the 14 days’ notice required by subsection (1) of that section, they have power, exercisable in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions, to enter for the purpose of 10 exercising that right or enforcing that covenant; and sections 12 (penalty for unauthorised entry) and 13 (entry on enforcement officer’s or sheriff’s warrant in the event of obstruction) of that Act are modified accordingly.(7) Section 20 of CPA 1965 (compensation for short-term tenants) applies withthe modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in 15 land as are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition of the land, but taking into account only the extent(if any) of such interference with such interests as is actually caused, or likelyto be caused, by the exercise of the right or enforcement of the restrictive 20 covenant in question.(8) Section 22 of CPA 1965 (protection of acquiring authority’s possession ofland where interest accidentally omitted from purchase) is so modified as toenable the acquiring authority, in circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled to exercise the right 25 acquired or enforce the restrictive covenant imposed, subject to compliancewith that section as respects compensation.(9) In the Land Compensation Act 1973, for section 44 substitute—“44Compensation for injurious affection(1) Where— 30(a) a right over land is acquired from any person for the purpose of works which are to be situated partly on that land and partly elsewhere, or(b) a restrictive covenant over land is imposed on any person forthe purpose of such works, 35compensation for injurious affection of land retained by that person shall be assessed by reference to the whole of the works and not only the part situated on the land over which the right is exercisable or the covenant is enforceable.(2) In this section, “compensation for injurious affection” means 40 compensation for injurious affection under section 7 or 20 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 as applied by paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 to the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act2014.”
￼￼￼290High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 9 — Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislation￼(10) For section 58 of that Act substitute—“58Determination of material detriment where right over part of house etc proposed for compulsory acquisition(1) Subsection (2) applies where the Upper Tribunal is determiningunder section 8(1)(c) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, as 5 applied by paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 to the High Speed Rail (London- West Midlands) Act 2014 whether—(a) a right over or restrictive covenant affecting part of a house, building or manufactory can be taken without material detriment to the house, building or manufactory, or 10(b) a right over or restrictive covenant affecting part of a park or garden belonging to a house can be taken without seriously affecting the amenity or convenience of the house.(2) The Tribunal shall take into account, not only the effect of the rightor covenant on the whole of the house, building or manufactory or of 15 the house and the park or garden, but also the use to be made of theright or covenant proposed to be acquired or imposed and, in a casewhere the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposedfor works or other purposes extending to other land, the effect of thewhole of the works and the use to be made of the other land.” 20Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 and compensation enactments3 (1)The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (“the 1981 Act”), as applied by section 4(4) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1), apply to a compulsory acquisition under section 4(1) by virtue of section 5—(a) with the modifications specified in paragraph 4, and 25(b) with such other modifications as may be necessary.4 (1)The modifications referred to in paragraph 3(1)(a) are as follows. 30(2) The enactments relating to compensation for the compulsory purchase of land also apply to a compulsory acquisition under section 4(1) by virtue of section 5.(2) References in the 1981 Act to land are, in appropriate contexts, to be read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including references to—(a) the right acquired or to be acquired or (as the case may be) the restrictive covenant imposed or to be imposed, or 35(b) the land over which the right is, or is to be, exercisable or (as the case may be) the restrictive covenant is, or is to be, enforceable.(3) References in the 1981 Act to the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 are to beread as references to that Act as it applies to a compulsory acquisition under section 4(1) by virtue of section 5. 40(4) Section 8(1) of the 1981 Act (vesting, and right to enter and take possession) is modified so as to secure—(a) that a general vesting declaration in respect of any right or restrictive covenant vests the right or the benefit of the covenant in the acquiring authority on the vesting date, and 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 9 — Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislation291￼(b) that, as from the vesting date, the acquiring authority have power, exercisable in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions, to enter land for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that covenant as if the circumstances mentioned in section8(1)(a) and (b) of the 1981 Act had arisen. 5(5) Section9(2)ofthe1981Act(rightofentryundersection8(1)notexercisablein respect of land subject to certain tenancies, unless notice has been servedon occupiers of the land) is modified so as to require a notice served by the appropriate authority under that provision to refer to the authority’s intention to enter land specified in the notice in order to exercise the right or 10 enforce the restrictive covenant.(6) In section 10(1) of the 1981 Act (acquiring authority’s liability on vesting ofland), the reference to the acquiring authority’s taking possession of the landunder section 11(1) of CPA 1965 is to be read instead as a reference to the authority’s exercising the power to enter the land under that provision as 15 modified by paragraph 2(6) of this Schedule.(7) Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the 1981 Act (divided land: buildings and gardens, etc) has effect as if—(a) in paragraph 2(1) (notice of objection to severance of buildings, gardens etc), for “part only of” there were substituted “only the 20 acquisition of a right over, or the imposition of a restrictive covenant affecting”,(b) in paragraph 3(a), the reference to the interest in respect of which anotice of objection to severance is served were to the right or the benefit of the covenant mentioned in paragraph 2(1) (as modified by 25 paragraph (a) of this sub-paragraph) (and subsequent references tothat interest are to be construed accordingly),(c) in paragraph 8(1), the reference to the part of the land proposed to besevered which is comprised in the general vesting declaration wereto the right or covenant comprised in the declaration, 30(d) for paragraph 8(2) there were substituted—“(2) Sub-paragraph (3) applies where the Upper Tribunal is determining under this paragraph, as applied by paragraph 3 of Schedule 9 to the High Speed Rail (London- West Midlands) Act 2014, whether— 35(a) a right over or restrictive covenant affecting part of a house, building or factory can be taken without material detriment, or(b) a right over or restrictive covenant affecting part ofa park or garden belonging to a house can be taken 40 without seriously affecting the amenity or convenience of the house.(3) The Tribunal shall take into account, not only the effect ofthe right or covenant on the whole of the house, buildingor factory or of the house and the park or garden, but also 45 the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or imposed and, in a case where the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for worksor other purposes extending to other land, the effect of thewhole of the works and the use to be made of the other 50 land.”,
￼￼￼292High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 9 — Acquisition of rights in land: application of compulsory purchase legislation(e) in paragraph 9(1), the reference to a part of the land which includesthe part comprised in the general vesting declaration were to a partof the land which includes the land over which the right or covenant comprised in the declaration is proposed to be exercisable or enforceable, and 5(f) any reference, in relation to the acquiring authority, to entering upon or taking possession of land were to entering upon land for the purpose of exercising the right acquired or enforcing the restrictive covenant imposed.SCHEDULE 10 Section 6 10 ACQUISITION OF PART OF LAND ONLYThe person to whom the notice to treat mentioned in section 6 is given (“the owner”) may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the notice is given, give the Secretary of State a counter-notice—(a) objecting to the sale of the part (“the land subject to the notice to 15 treat”), and(b) stating that he or she is willing and able to sell the whole (“the land subject to the counter-notice”).￼1 (1)2 (1)counter-notice, 30 the question as to what land the owner is required to sell must be referred tothe Upper Tribunal.If, on a reference under paragraph 1(4), the Upper Tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken—(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to 35 the counter-notice, and(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of or includes garden only land, without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house to which the garden only land belongs,the owner is required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 40(2) Ifnocounter-noticeisgivenundersub-paragraph(1),theownerisrequiredto sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 20(3) If—(a) a counter-notice is given under sub-paragraph (1), and(b) the Secretary of State agrees to take the land subject to the counter- notice,the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat in addition for the 25 remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice.(4) If—(a) a counter-notice is given under sub-paragraph (1), and(b) the Secretary of State does not agree to take the land subject to the(2) If, on such a reference, the Upper Tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken as mentioned in sub- paragraph (1), the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 10 — Acquisition of part of land only293￼3 (1)(a) it consists of the whole part or part of a park or garden belonging to a house, or(b) it includes the whole or part of such a park or garden but does not include the house or any part of it.Where under paragraph 2 a notice to treat is deemed by virtue of a 30 determination of the Upper Tribunal to be a notice to treat for less land ormore land than that specified in the notice, the Secretary of State may, withinthe period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the determination ismade, withdraw the notice.(3) If,onsuchareference,theUpperTribunaldetermines—(a) that none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be takenwithout material detriment to the remainder of the land subject tothe counter-notice, but(b) that the material detriment is confined to part of the remainder of 5that land,then, except where sub-paragraph (4) applies, the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat in addition for the land to which the material detriment is confined.(4) If, in a case where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of or includes 10 garden only land, the Upper Tribunal determines on such a reference thatnone of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without seriously affecting the amenity or convenience of the house to which the garden onlyland belongs, the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat in addition for the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice. 15(5) If,onsuchareference,theUpperTribunaldetermines—(a) that none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be takenwithout material detriment to the remainder of the land subject tothe counter-notice, and(b) that the material detriment is not confined to part of the remainder 20of that land,the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat in addition for the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice.(6) For the purposes of this paragraph, the land subject to the notice to treat consists of or includes “garden only land” if— 25(2) If the Secretary of State withdraws a notice to treat under sub-paragraph (1), 35 the Secretary of State must pay the person to whom the notice was given compensation for any loss or expense occasioned to that person by thegiving and withdrawal of the notice; and in case of dispute, such compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.(3) Where under paragraph 1 or 2 a person is required to sell part only of a 40 house, building or manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a parkor garden, the Secretary of State must pay the person compensation for anyloss sustained by the person due to the severance of that part in addition tothe value of the interest acquired.(4) A notice to treat has the effect which it is deemed to have under paragraph 45 1(3) or paragraph 2(3), (4) or (5) whether or not the additional land is, apartfrom that provision, land which the Secretary of State is authorised to acquire compulsorily under this Act.
￼￼￼294High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 11 — Land with restrictions relating to surface acquisitionSCHEDULE 11 Section 8 LAND WITH RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO SURFACE ACQUISITION￼Restriction of power of compulsory acquisition to land under the surface1In the case of land specified in the following table, the power under section4(1) may be exercised only in relation to so much of the subsoil or under- 5 surface of the land as lies more than 9 metres below the level of the surface.￼AreaLondon Borough of CamdenCity of Westminster London Borough of BrentRoyal Borough of Kensington & ChelseaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamLondon Borough of EalingLondon Borough of EalingLondon Borough of HillingdonCountyofBuckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of Chalfont St. PeterNumber of land shown on deposited plans215, 218, 224 to 228, 230 to 235, 238 to 240, 242 to248, 253 to 255, 257 to 287, 310 to 343, 345 to 349,391, 393 to 400, 413 to 419, 425 to 427, 430, 431, 436 10 to 444, 447 to 471, 474, 476 to 507, 510 to 521, 523to 608, 610 to 642, 645 to 647, 650, 653 to 655, 657,660 to 663, 666 to 679, 682 to 685, 688, 689, 692,695, 696, 700 to 702, 709, 710, 714, 718, 720, 723, 729to 740, 744, 747, 748, 752 to 754, 756 to 765, 769, 778 15 to 780, 81411,13to57,59 to247,249to2673, 5 to 13, 15 to 24, 26, 30 to 34, 46, 47, 62, 63, 65 to68, 70 to 76, 79 to 86, 89, 93, 101, 102, 109, 111 to118, 120 to 140, 142 to 179, 181, 182, 188, 192 to 195, 20 197, 199 to 217, 219 to 240, 242, 246 to 268, 270 to311, 313, 315 to 325, 328 to 367, 369, 380 to 384, 386to 389, 392, 393, 396￼￼￼￼14, 17, 18, 20 1 to 4, 1825￼￼360 to 364, 366 to 368, 372, 374, 377 to 386, 391, 398,399, 401 to 405, 411, 414 to 430, 432 to 437, 440 to444, 446 to 450, 463 to 465, 467 to 469, 472 to 481, 30 483 to 491 493 to 513, 521 to 526, 540 to 553, 557 to561, 581, 583 to 639, 641 to 644, 646 to 659, 661,663, 664, 670 to 674, 682 to 687, 689, 699, 700, 702 to707712 to 715, 718 to 764, 773 to 775, 791, 792, 794 to 35 797, 801, 812 to 814, 822, 823, 825, 831 to 840, 846,848, 851 to 866, 869, 870, 884 to 894, 896, 900 to 921,924, 927, 929 to 941, 952, 971a, 978, 980 to 983, 986,991 to 999, 1001, 1006, 1008 to 1012, 1016 to 1026,1031, 1032, 1034 to 1036 4019, 21, 29, 31 to 35, 43 to 45, 53, 64 to 67, 70 to 73,79 to 83, 86 to 95, 98, 108 to 116, 140 to 154, 155a,161 to 174, 176a, 178 to 182, 183a, 186, 188, 189,192, 194 to 196, 207 to 213, 221 to 223, 225 to 228,249 to 347, 350 to 360, 362 to 364, 369 4532to34,43,48,51to65,67to69,74,79,81,84, 86 to 88￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 11 — Land with restrictions relating to surface acquisition295￼￼AreaParish of Chalfont St. GilesParish of Coleshill Parish of AmershamParish of Little Missenden City of Birmingham28,29,38,40to43and45 10 Restriction of power of compulsory acquisition to land under the surface or rights of passageNumber of land shown on deposited plans7,8,10to45, 47to58, 60 to73, 81, 86,90,92,97, 100, 103 to 1266,7￼￼￼12,15,16,19to21,35,36,36a,42,48to50,52to55, 5 60, 62, 63, 68, 69, 73, 80 to 8221to24,27to29,33,35,39to4379, 93 to 95, 97 to 102, 103, 106, 107, 111, 112, 114 to 121, 123 to 131, 133 to 150, 152 to 157, 177 to 180￼￼￼2(1) In the case of land specified in the following table, the power under section4(1) may be exercised only in either or both of the following ways— 15(a) in relation to so much of the subsoil or under-surface of the land as lies more than 9 metres below the level of the surface;(b) so as to acquire rights of passage.(2) In this paragraph, “rights of passage” means easements or other rights overland for the passage of persons or vehicles (with or without materials, plant 20 and machinery) for Phase One purposes.County of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-Avon Parish of Long Itchington￼￼AreaLondon Borough of Camden London Borough of Ealing London Borough of HillingdonNumber on deposited plans483, 485391, 1031, 1032, 1034113 to 116 25￼￼￼￼Supplementary3 (1) Paragraphs1and2aresubjecttoanypowertoimposerestrictivecovenants by virtue of section 5(2).(2) Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not restrict the exercise of the power under section4(1) in relation to a cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a 30 highway which forms part of a building fronting on to the highway where—(a) the building is within the Act limits, and(b) the power under section 4(1) is exercisable in relation to the building.
￼￼￼296High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 12 — Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire land￼SCHEDULE 12 Section 9 HIGHWAYS: RESTRICTIONS ON POWERS TO USE SUBSOIL AND ACQUIRE LAND￼London Borough of CamdenAreaNumber of land shown on deposited plans1 to 3, 5 to 8, 14, 16, 19, 20, 22 to 25, 25a, 25b, 25c,25d,45,56to58,64,83to86,100to109, 5 147, 148, 150, 161, 164 to 167, 186, 187, 190,193, 195, 197, 199, 213, 214, 229, 250, 251,252, 256, 288, 289, 290, 306, 361, 370, 380,381, 382, 392, 412, 428, 429, 435, 445, 446,643, 648, 649, 651, 652, 656, 658, 659, 664, 10 680, 681, 686, 687, 703, 707, 711, 712, 713,715, 716, 725, 726, 728, 741, 743, 745, 770,777, 786, 787, 788, 793, 797, 798, 799, 800,806, 812, 813, 815, 837, 842, 857, 858, 864,871, 889, 893, 899, 900, 904, 910, 921, 926, 15 928, 945, 955, 966, 967, 972, 979, 981, 985,989, 990, 1002, 1022, 1026, 1029, 1036, 1042,1047, 1049, 1062, 1064, 10652, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 58, 248, 2681, 2, 4, 25, 27, 41, 42, 43, 56, 57, 59, 88, 91, 92, 20 103, 104, 107, 108, 141, 180, 183, 184, 186,187, 189, 190, 191, 196, 198, 218, 241, 243,244, 245, 269, 312, 314, 326, 327, 368, 370,379, 3854, 13 and 15 25 26, 27, 30, 35, 36, 3822, 88, 89, 107, 109, 244, 246, 247, 248, 250,252, 253, 292, 293, 296, 316, 320, 321, 350,369, 371, 373, 375, 407, 431, 455, 462, 470, 30 518, 519, 520, 536, 567, 665, 675, 709, 710,711, 717, 777, 815, 820, 821, 829, 830, 841,845, 850, 876, 897, 943, 953, 955, 956, 967,976, 1000, 1004, 100555, 69, 74, 75, 77 , 78, 104, 105, 155, 156, 160, 35 177, 198, 200, 201, 215 to 218, 348, 349, 385,386, 407 to 410, 421, 435, 446, 514, 516, 670,698, 699, 700, 701, 703, 708, 716, 717, 721a,757, 762, 785a1g, 3 4014, 16, 45, 60, 62, 66, 106, 10839 to 42, 66, 71, 72, 77, 78 452￼￼City of Westminster London Borough of BrentRoyal Borough of Kensington and ChelseaLondon Borough of Hammersmith and FulhamLondon Borough of EalingLondon Borough of HillingdonCounty of Buckinghamshire District of South Bucks Parish of DenhamCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversCounty of Buckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of Chalfont St PeterParish of Chalfont St Giles￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 12 — Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire land297￼￼AreaParish of ColeshillParish of Amersham Parish of Little Missenden Parish of Great MissendenCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of QuaintonParish of HogshawParish of East ClaydonParish of Grendon Underwood Parish of Calvert GreenParish of Steeple ClaydonParish of Charndon Parish of TwyfordCounty of OxfordshireDistrict of CherwellParish of Newton Purcell with ShelswellParish of Finmere Parish of MixburyCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WestburyCounty of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of BoddingtonParish of WhitfieldParish of RadstoneParish of Chipping Warden and Edgcote Parish of Aston Le WallsParish of HelmdonParish of GreatworthParish of Marston St LawrenceParish of SulgraveParish of Thorpe MandevilleNumber of land shown on deposited plans926, 30, 39, 41, 43, 44, 51, 56, 57, 799, 10, 30, 67, 77￼￼￼￼43, 48, 59, 70, 100, 101, 109, 113, 127, 154, 5 169, 176, 18725, 29, 36, 48, 57, 154, 156, 169, 179, 183, 198, 211, 214, 227, 245, 2759, 14, 17 10 1, 6, 814b2628, 30, 55, 57, 59, 105, 116, 118, 122, 123, 126,127 15￼￼￼￼￼￼￼112, 31, 74, 79 60, 79215, 21, 22, 36 2631, 32, 35, 37, 49, 53, 53a, 55, 82, 105, 1182025￼￼￼￼￼￼￼5114, 43, 45, 48 30 1, 5, 8, 12, 30, 51, 64, 67, 75, 79, 1037, 18146, 47, 51, 55, 58, 78, 953 35 46, 11, 13, 22, 23, 32, 52, 57, 66￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼298High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 12 — Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire land￼￼AreaCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of TurwestonParish of ChetwodeParish of Barton HartshornDistrict of Chiltern Parish of The LeeDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WendoverDistrict of WycombeParish of Barton EllesboroughDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke MandevilleDistrict of WycombeParish of Great and Little Kimble Cum MarshDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of AylesburyParish of Coldharbour Parish of Fleet Marston Parish of Waddesdon Parish of Preston BissettCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-Avon Parish of WormleightonParish of LadbrokeParish of Long ItchingtonParish of UftonParish of SouthamDistrict of Warwick Parish of OffchurchParish of Cubbington Parish of Stoneleigh Parish of Burton GreenMetropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BerkswellNumber of land shown on deposited plans2, 4, 24, 43 30, 6338, 75, 89, 101, 102, 103, 104 1, 5, 8, 3110, 41￼Parish of Culworth￼5￼￼￼￼17, 22, 33, 75, 86, 104, 130, 133, 140, 144, 148, 10 154, 158, 164, 168, 207, 208, 209, 210, 216,218, 225, 226, 229, 2426, 37, 73, 817, 37, 46, 52, 68, 89 15 2, 823 208, 912a and 2747, 48, 50, 10810 25 3643, 458, 33, 44, 60, 62 30 1, 3, 14, 221062, 8, 3356 35 26, 32, 40, 47, 70, 14918, 22, 27, 66, 10213￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 12 — Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire land299￼￼AreaParish of BickenhillParish of Chelmsley WoodParish of Smiths WoodParish of Castle BromwichCounty of Warwickshire District of North Warwickshire Parish of ColeshillParish of Water Orton Parish of CurdworthParish of Lea Marston Parish of Wishaw Parish of MiddletonCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton BassettParish of HintsParish of WeefordParish of Swinfen and Packington Parish of WhittingtonParish of LichfieldParish of Fradley and Streethay Parish of King’s BromleyParish of ColtonCounty of Staffordshire Borough of Stafford Parish of ColwichMetropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BerkswellParish of Hampton-in Arden Parish of BickenhillCounty of Warwickshire District of North Warwickshire Parish of Little PackingtonParish of ColeshillNumber of land shown on deposited plans￼84, 89, 92, 941, 2, 4, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 64, 67, 691 156, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12A, 13A, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20, 29,30, 31, 39, 49, 54, 67, 93, 94, 149, 151, 153,154, 161, 256, 258, 259, 305, 313, 317, 430,434, 436, 442, 444, 447, 512, 530, 535 to 537,541, 542, 549, 551, 577 1031, 52A, 77, 81, 84, 90, 95,101, 103, 104, 111, 114, 116, 121, 127, 13450A, 52, 79, 104, 105, 122, 161, 163, 197, 204, 206, 208, 209, 21815 15 147, 24, 33, 40, 44, 45, 62, 10537, 892054, 56, 97, 132, 135, 1395, 13, 1548, 511, 8, 51, 59, 68, 70, 88, 110, 145, 1523 25 20, 42, 69, 91, 278￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼17, 62, 136, 190 8A, 10A10137, 146, 150, 154, 212 to 21430￼￼￼￼16c, 23, 44, 56, 74, 881, 3a, 30, 33, 34, 64, 84 35 81e￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼300High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 12 — Highways: restrictions on powers to use subsoil and acquire landNumber of land shown on deposited plans5, 6, 58, 60, 63e, 91, 92, 122, 132, 157a, 157b,157j, 158, 247, 251m, 252a, 259, 260, 260a,265, 270, 298, 299, 300f, 317, 326b, 326c, 347,352, 365, 375, 380, 393, 394, 399, 400, 402, 5 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 436, 438, 440,441, 448, 450, 458, 465, 466, 467, 480, 481SCHEDULE 13 Section 10 RIGHT TO REQUIRE ACQUISITION WHERE TIME LIMIT EXTENDEDIf the Secretary of State makes an order under section 10(2), the following 10 provisions have effect as from the coming into force of the order.￼￼Area￼City of Birmingham￼1 (1)(2) Those provisions do not apply to any subsoil or under-surface of land required only for the construction of a work at a level more than 9 metres below the level of the surface of the land.2 (1)(2) The Secretary of State must, within 3 months immediately following receipt 20 of the relevant notice—(a) enter into an agreement with the person for the acquisition of the person’s interest in the whole or part of the land specified in the notice,(b) exercise the applicable compulsory acquisition powers in respect of 25 the person’s interest in the whole or part of that land, or(c) give the person notice of the Secretary of State’s intention not to proceed with the purchase of the person’s interest in any of that land.(3) Forthepurposesofsub-paragraph(1)apersonhasa“qualifyinginterest”inland if the person is the owner or lessee of the land. 303 (1)Where a person gives the Secretary of State a relevant notice and the Secretary of State—(a) fails to comply with the requirements of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 2,(b) withdraws a notice to treat served in compliance with paragraph (b) 35 of that sub-paragraph, or(c) gives the person a notice under paragraph (c) of that sub-paragraph,the applicable compulsory acquisition powers cease to be exercisable in respect of that person’s interest in any of the land specified in the relevantnotice. 40Sub-paragraph (2) applies if a person with a qualifying interest in any of the 15 land in relation to which the order is made gives notice to the Secretary ofState (a “relevant notice”) that the person desires his or her interest in suchof that land as is specified in the notice to be acquired by the Secretary ofState.(2) Where—(a) a person gives the Secretary of State a relevant notice, and
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 13 — Right to require acquisition where time limit extended301￼(b) the Secretary of State acquires in pursuance of paragraph 2(2)(a) or (b) the person’s interest in some, but not all, of the land specified in the notice,the applicable compulsory acquisition powers cease to be exercisable in respect of that person’s interest in the remainder of that land. 54 (1) References in this Schedule to the “applicable compulsory acquisition powers” are to—(a) the power to serve a notice to treat under Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, as applied by section 4(3) to the acquisition ofland under section 4(1), and 10(b) the power to execute a declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as applied by section 4(4) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1).(2) In this Schedule—“lessee” means a person who holds an interest under a lease which has 15at least 21 years to run at the date of the giving of a relevant notice bythat person;“owner”, in relation to land, means a person, other than a mortgageenot in possession, who is for the time being entitled to dispose of thefee simple of the land, whether in possession or reversion. 20SCHEDULE 14 Section 11 EXTINCTION OF RIGHTS OVER LANDLand to which Schedule applies1 This Schedule applies to—(a) land within the Act limits which is held by the Secretary of State for 25Phase One purposes, and(b) land within the Act limits in relation to which the Secretary of Statehas acquired a right (whether by creating a new right or acquiring an existing right) or imposed a restrictive covenant for Phase One purposes. 30Private rights2 (1) All private rights over land within paragraph 1(a) are extinguished at the appropriate time.(2) All private rights over land within paragraph 1(b) are extinguished at the appropriate time, so far as the continuance of those rights would be 35 inconsistent with the exercise of the right acquired or the restrictive covenant imposed.(3) In this Schedule, “private rights” include—(a) private rights of way over land,(b) rights of common, 40(c) easements, liberties, privileges, rights or advantages annexed to land and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support, and
￼￼￼302High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 14 — Extinction of rights over land(d) restrictions as to the user of land arising under a contract.￼3 (1)4 (1)Secretary of State, would not be capable of being acquired under section 4(1), or(b) a right to which section 271 or 272 of the Town and Country PlanningAct 1990 (extinguishment of rights of statutory undertakers etc) applies (and see section 12 as to the application of those sections). 20Any person who suffers loss by the extinction of a private right under paragraph 2 is entitled to be compensated by the nominated undertaker.(4) Where the power under section 11(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (power of entry following notice to treat) is exercised in the case of landwithin paragraph 1(a) or (b), sub-paragraph (1) or (2) (as the case may be)has effect in relation to rights of common over the land notwithstanding 5 anything in Schedule 4 to that Act (which preserves rights of common overland until payment of compensation).The Secretary of State may, in relation to a private right, direct—(a) that paragraph 2 does not apply to the right, or(b) that paragraph 2 applies to the right only to the extent specified in 10the direction.(2) A direction under sub-paragraph (1) must be given before the appropriate time.(3) Paragraph 2 does not apply to—(a) a right over land which, were the land held otherwise than by the 15(2) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under this paragraph, or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined underand in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961. 25(3) This paragraph does not apply where compensation in respect of rights of common is payable under Schedule 4 to the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965.General rights5 (1)All general rights over land within paragraph 1(a) are extinguished at the appropriate time. 306 (1)(a) rights to access land (however expressed) which are exercisable as a result of section 2(1) of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 or an enactment mentioned in section 15 of that Act,(b) other public rights over land which are conferred by an enactment,and 40(c) rights exercisable as a result of trusts or incidents to which a common, town or village green, open space or allotment is subject.The Secretary of State may, in relation to a general right, direct— (a) that paragraph 5 does not apply to the right, or(2) All general rights over land within paragraph 1(b) are extinguished at the appropriate time, so far as the continuance of those rights would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right acquired or the restrictive covenant imposed.(3) In this Schedule, references to “general rights” over land are to— 35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 14 — Extinction of rights over land303￼(b) that paragraph 5 applies to the right only to the extent specified in the direction.(2) A direction under sub-paragraph (1) must be given before the appropriate time.Meaning of “the appropriate time” 57 (1)References in this Schedule to “the appropriate time” are to be read as follows.(2) In the case of—(a) land held immediately before the day on which this Act is passed, or(b) land which, immediately before that day, was land in relation to 10which a right had been acquired or a restrictive covenant had been imposed,the appropriate time is the end of the period of 14 days beginning with that day.(3) In the case of— 15(a) land acquired on or after the day on which this Act is passed, or(b) land in relation to which a right has been acquired or a restrictive covenant has been imposed on or after that day,the appropriate time is the time of acquisition or (in the case of a restrictive covenant) imposition. 20(4) Sub-paragraph (3) is subject to sub-paragraphs (5) and (6) (which apply to land or a right acquired compulsorily or to a restrictive covenant imposed compulsorily).(5) Where the power under section 11(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965has been exercised in relation to the land, the appropriate time is— 25(a) the time of entry under that provision, or(b) in the case of the acquisition of a right or the imposition of arestrictive covenant, the time when the power to enter the land forthe purpose of exercising the right or enforcing the covenant becomes exercisable under that provision (as modified in accordance 30 with paragraph 2(6) of Schedule 9).(6) Where a declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 has been made in relation to the land, the appropriate time is the vesting date (within the meaning of that Act).Amendments to registers of common land or town or village greens 358 (1) Thisparagraphapplieswhere—(a) the Secretary of State acquires land within the Act limits for PhaseOne purposes, or(b) the Secretary of State acquires a right, or imposes a restrictivecovenant, over land within the Act limits. 40(2) TheSecretaryofStatemustnotifythecommonsregistrationauthorityofthe acquisition or (in the case of a restrictive covenant) imposition if it relates to—(a) land registered in a register of common land as common land,
￼￼￼304High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 14 — Extinction of rights over land(b) land registered in a register of town or village greens as a town or village green, or(c) a right of common registered in relation to land within paragraph (a) or (b).￼(3) A notice under sub-paragraph (2) must include— 5(a) a copy of this Schedule,(b) a copy of the instrument by which the acquisition or imposition waseffected,(c) the number of the register unit and (where applicable) the number ofthe rights section entry in the register of common land or of town or 10 village greens to which the notice relates, and(d) a description of the amendment required to the register in question in consequence of the acquisition or imposition.(4) Sub-paragraph (5) applies where, in connection with the acquisition or imposition— 15(a) other land is given in exchange, or(b) other land is to be made subject to a right of common equivalent to aright of common extinguished by virtue of paragraph 2.(5) The notice under sub-paragraph (2) must contain—(a) details of the land being given or the right of common being granted, 20 and(b) an application for (as the case may be)—(i) the registration of the land as common land or as a town orvillage green, or(ii) the registration of the right being granted. 25(6) The commons registration authority must make such amendments as may be necessary to a register in consequence of sub-paragraph (2) (including any amendments necessary in consequence of sub-paragraph (5)).(7) Nothing in—(a) regulations under section 14 of the Commons Act 2006, or 30(b) regulations under section 13 of the Commons Registration Act 1965,applies to an acquisition or imposition mentioned in sub-paragraph (1).Interpretation9 In this Schedule—(a) references to section 11(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 are 35 to that provision as applied by section 4(3) of this Act to the acquisition of land under section 4(1) of this Act;(b) references to section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 are to that section as applied by section 4(4) ofthis Act to the acquisition of land under section 4(1) of this Act; 40(c) “right of common” has the same meaning as in the Commons Act 2006.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 1 — Temporary possession for construction of worksSCHEDULE 15TEMPORARY POSSESSION AND USE OF LANDPART 1TEMPORARY POSSESSION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORKSRight to enter upon and take possession of land305Section 145￼1 (1) The nominated undertaker may enter upon and take possession of the land specified in the table in Part 4 of this Schedule—(a) for the purpose specified in relation to the land in column (3) of thetable in connection with the authorised works specified in column (4)of the table, 10(b) for the purpose of constructing such works as are mentioned in column (5) of the table in relation to the land, or(c) otherwise for Phase One purposes.(2) The nominated undertaker may (subject to paragraph 2(1)) enter upon andtake possession of any other land within the Act limits for Phase One 15 purposes.(3) The reference in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to the authorised works specified in column (4) of the table includes a reference to any works which are necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with those works.Exceptions 202 (1)Paragraph 1(2) does not apply in relation to—(a) land which is subject to a restricted power of compulsory acquisition,(b) land in respect of which a notice of entry has been served under section 11 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as applied by 25 section 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)), other thanin connection with the acquisition of rights or subsoil only or the imposition of a restrictive covenant, or(c) land in respect of which a declaration has been made under section4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (as 30 applied by section 4(4) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)),other than in connection with the acquisition of rights or subsoil onlyor the imposition of a restrictive covenant.(2) The power under section 4(1) (power to acquire land compulsorily) is not exercisable in relation to land specified in the table in Part 4 of this Schedule. 35(3) Butsub-paragraph(2)doesnotapplyinrelationtolandspecifiedinthetable to the extent (if any) that—(a) the land is subject to a restricted power of compulsory acquisition, or(b) there is power by virtue of section 5(2) to impose restrictivecovenants over the land. 40(4) For the purposes of this Schedule, land is subject to a restricted power of compulsory acquisition if the power under section 4(1) may be exercised in relation to the land only—
￼￼￼306Powers exercisable on land of which temporary possession has been taken3 (1) Where under paragraph 1(1) or (2) the nominated undertaker has enteredupon and taken possession of land, the nominated undertaker may, for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the works authorised 10 by this Act—(a) remove any structure or vegetation from the land,(b) construct such works as are mentioned in relation to the land in column (5) of the table in Part 4 of this Schedule,(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of 15 access) and structures on the land, and(d) construct landscaping and other works on the land to mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of the works authorised by this Act.(2) The other works referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(d) include works involving 20 the planting of trees and shrubs and the provision of replacement habitat forwild animals.(3) In this paragraph, “structure” includes any erection.Procedure and compensationHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 1 — Temporary possession for construction of works(a) so as to acquire rights relating to the land (see section 5(3)),(b) so as to acquire the subsoil or under-surface of the land or so as to acquire rights of passage over the land (see paragraphs 1 and 2 ofSchedule 11),￼4 (1) (2)(3)(4)Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking possession of land 25 under paragraph 1(1) or (2), the nominated undertaker must give notice tothe owners and occupiers of the land of its intention to do so.Thenominatedundertakermaynot,withouttheagreementoftheownersofthe land, remain in possession of land under paragraph 1(1) or (2) after theend of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the 30 work for which temporary possession of the land was taken.Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply, in the case of land mentioned in paragraph 1(2), if before the end of the one-year period either of the following powers has been exercised in relation to the land—(a) the power to serve a notice to treat under Part 1 of the Compulsory 35 Purchase Act 1965 (as applied by section 4(3) of this Act to the acquisition of land under section 4(1));(b) the power to execute a declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (as applied by section 4(4) of this Act to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)). 40The nominated undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which possession is taken under paragraph 1(1) or (2) for any loss which they may suffer by reason of the exercise in relation to the land of the power or powers under that paragraph.(ignoring any power by virtue of section 5(2) to impose restrictive covenants 5 over the land).
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 1 — Temporary possession for construction of works307￼5 (1)Before giving up possession of land of which possession has been takenunder paragraph 1(1) or (2), the nominated undertaker must, in accordance 10 with a scheme agreed with the owners of the land and the relevant planning authority, put the land into such condition as the scheme may provide.(5) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- paragraph (4), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.(6) Nothing in this paragraph affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as applied by section 5 4(3) to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)) or under any other enactment, otherwise than for loss for which compensation is payable under sub-paragraph (4).(2) If no scheme has been agreed for the purposes of this paragraph within 6 months of the date of completion mentioned in paragraph 4(2) in relation tothe land, the scheme is to be such as may be determined by the appropriate 15 Ministers after consulting the nominated undertaker, the owners of the landand the relevant planning authority.(3) Unless the owners of the land and the nominated undertaker otherwiseagree, a scheme determined under sub-paragraph (2) must provide for landto be restored to its former condition. 20(4) Sub-paragraph (3) does not require land on which works referred to in paragraph 1(1)(b) or 3(1)(d) have been constructed to be restored to its former condition.(5) Unless the nominated undertaker otherwise agrees, a scheme determinedunder sub-paragraph (2) may not provide for the nominated undertaker to 25 replace a structure removed under paragraph 3, other than a fence.(6) Where the appropriate Ministers ask the relevant planning authority for assistance in connection with the carrying out by them of their functionunder sub-paragraph (2), they may require the nominated undertaker to reimburse to the relevant planning authority any expenses which it 30 reasonably incurs in meeting the request.(7) Thedutyundersub-paragraph(1)inrelationtoanylandisowedseparately to the owners of the land and to the relevant planning authority.(8) Whereaschemeforthepurposesofthisparagraphprovidesforanysteptobe taken by the nominated undertaker before a specified date and that step 35 has not been taken before that date, the relevant planning authority may—(a) enter the land concerned and take that step, and(b) require the nominated undertaker to reimburse to it any expenseswhich it reasonably incurs in acting under paragraph (a).(9) In this paragraph— 40“appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government and the Secretary of State for Transport and, in relation to the carrying out of any function, means those Ministers acting jointly;“relevant planning authority” means the unitary authority or, in a non- 45 unitary area, the district council in whose area the land is situated.
￼￼￼308High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 2 — Temporary possession for maintenance of worksPART 2TEMPORARY POSSESSION FOR MAINTENANCE OF WORKS￼Right to enter upon and take possession of land6 (1)Atanytimeduringthemaintenanceperiodrelatingtoanyofthescheduled works, the nominated undertaker may— 5(a) enter upon and take possession of any land which is—(i) within 20 metres from that work, and(ii) within the Act limits,if possession of the land is reasonably required for the purposes of orin connection with maintaining the work or any ancillary works 10 connected with it, and(b) construct on the land such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and structures as may be reasonably so required, unless the land is specified in the table in Part 4 of this Schedule.(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not authorise the nominated undertaker to take 15 possession of—(a) a house, any other structure which is for the time being occupied, or a garden belonging to a house, or(b) land which is subject to a restricted power of compulsory acquisition. 20(3) Thenominatedundertakermayonlyremaininpossessionofthelandforso long as may be reasonably required to carry out the maintenance works for which possession of the land was taken.(4) In this paragraph—(a) “the maintenance period”, in relation to any work, means the period 25beginning with the date on which the work is completed and ending5 years after the date on which it is brought into general use;(b) “structure” includes any erection;(c) the reference in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to land within a specified distance of a work includes, in the case of a work under the surface 30 of the ground, a reference to land within the specified distance of anypoint on the surface below which the work is situated.Procedure and compensation7 (1)Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking possession of landunder paragraph 6, the nominated undertaker must give notice to the 35 owners and occupiers of the land of its intention to do so.(2) Before giving up possession of the land, the nominated undertaker must restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of its owners.(3) The nominated undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss which they may suffer by reason of the 40 exercise in relation to the land of the powers under paragraph 6.(4) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- paragraph (3), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 2 — Temporary possession for maintenance of works309￼(5) Nothing in this paragraph affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as applied by section4(3) of this Act to the acquisition of land under section 4(1)), or under anyother enactment, otherwise than for loss for which compensation is payableunder sub-paragraph (3). 5PART 3SUSPENSION OF RIGHTS AND ENFORCEMENTSuspension of rights relating to land8 (1)All private rights over land of which the nominated undertaker takes possession under paragraph 1(1) or (2) or 6 are suspended and 10 unenforceable for as long as the nominated undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.9 (1)All general rights over land of which the nominated undertaker takes possession under paragraph 1(1) or (2) or 6 are suspended and unenforceable for as long as the nominated undertaker remains in lawful 35 possession of the land.(2) The nominated undertaker may, in relation to a private right, direct—(a) that sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to the right, or(b) that sub-paragraph (1) applies to the right only to the extent specified 15in the direction.(3) In this paragraph, “private rights” include—(a) private rights of way over land,(b) rights of common,(c) easements, liberties, privileges, rights or advantages annexed to land 20and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right tosupport, and(d) restrictions as to the user of land arising under a contract.(4) Any person who suffers loss by reason of the suspension of a right under sub-paragraph (1) is entitled to be compensated by the nominated 25 undertaker.(5) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under sub- paragraph (4), or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under and in accordance with Part 1 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.(6) This paragraph applies to a private right which is for the benefit of Crown 30 land if the Crown authority consents (and consent may be subject to conditions).(2) The nominated undertaker may, in relation to a general right, direct—(a) that sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to the right, or(b) that sub-paragraph (1) applies to the right only to the extent specifiedin the direction. 40(3) In this paragraph, references to “general rights” over land are to—(a) rights to access land (however expressed) which are exercisable as a result of section 2(1) of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000or an enactment mentioned in section 15 of that Act,
￼￼￼310High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 3 — Suspension of rights and enforcementother public rights over land which are conferred by an enactment, andrights exercisable as a result of trusts or incidents to which a common, town or village green, open space or allotment is subject.￼Enforcement5(b) (c)10 (1) Section 13 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) applies for the purposes of this Schedule as if—(a) references to the acquiring authority were to the nominated undertaker,(b) references to compensation payable to the person refusing to give 10 possession were to compensation payable under this Schedule, and(c) in subsection (1), for “this Act” there were substituted “Schedule 15 to the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Act 2014”.(2) InthecaseofCrownland,thatsectiondoesnot,byvirtueofsub-paragraph(1), apply as against the Crown authority for that land. 15PART 4LAND WHICH MAY BE OCCUPIED AND USED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS￼￼￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Camden(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) (4) Purpose for which Specifiedtemporary authorised possession may be workstaken(5) Specified workswhich may be 20 carried out￼192291 to 305 307, 308312, 313, 314, 317, 346, 350 to 360, 771 to 776705, 706, 708Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of access for utility worksDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus1/181/1 1/11/15￼London Borough of Brent22, 24, 30, 31, 34, 44, 45, 67, 71, 73, 382, 387, 390 to 39360, 61, 114, 118, 121Diversion or 1/15 installation of, orworks to, utilities apparatusDiversion or 1/1 installation of, orworks to, utilities apparatus2530354045
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works311(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Hammersmith & FulhamLondon Borough of Ealing(2) (3) Number of Purpose for whichland shown temporaryon deposited possession may beplans taken(4) Specified authorised works510152025 3035 40 4550￼82, 85Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus1/211524, 25Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to utilities apparatus1/11/15￼￼23 Diversion or installation of, orworks to, utilities apparatus878, 879 Provision of worksite andaccess for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus473, 475, Diversion or478, 479, installation of, or 481, 482, works to, utilities 485, 488, apparatus508, 513 to516, 527 to535, 537 to539, 543,546, 549,552, 554,559, 563 to566, 568 to578, 690,701, 881 to883, 965,966, 983676 to 682 Diversion or installation of, orworks to, utilities apparatus708, 954 Provision of worksite andaccess for construction1/401/11/11/15
￼￼￼312High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) (3) (4) Number of Purpose for which Specified land shown temporary authorisedon deposited possession may be works plans taken(5) Specified works which may be carried out5101520￼871, 873, 8741028, 1029, 1031 to 1034Worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision worksite and access for construction1/55Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of environmental mitigation￼London Borough of Hillingdon34, 187 to Provision of access Diversion or 189, 249, for utility works installation of, 254 or works to,utilities apparatus59, 60, 76, Provision of Diversion or 174 worksite and installation of,access for or works to, construction utilitiesapparatus81, 82, 83, Diversion or 1/15 86, installation of, or144 to 147, works to utilities222, 226, apparatus228, 250, 252, 253157, 159, Provision of 1/57 161, 162 worksite andaccess for construction372 to 375 Diversion or 1/1 and 1/15 380 to 383 installation of, orworks to, utilities apparatus720e Provision of access Provision of for construction environmentalmitigation598, 602, Diversion and 2/1 681, 682, installation of684 to 687, overhead electric689 to 691 lines253035404550
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works313(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works￼703a, 703b, 704 to 706 747c, 750720a733Provision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to utilities apparatus2/1Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/11a4, 5, 5a, 69, 10, 1320Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of environmental mitigation2/52/620, 26, 28, 30,33, 35, 39, 42,50 to 52, 83, 85, 86, 99, 100, 102118Reprofiling of groundProvision of worksite and access for construction2/12/10a￼County of Buckinghamshire District of South BucksParish of Denham5101520 2530￼County of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Chiltern Parish of Chalfont St Peter15, 17, 18, 2073Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of access for construction2/1Reprofiling of 35 ground404550￼
￼￼￼314Parish of Chalfont St GilesParish of AmershamHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried out5￼1, 3Provision of access for construction9, 46, 59, 93 to 95, 99, 101, 1025, 1340, 58 6175Provision of protective works to watercourseReprofiling of groundDewatering operationsProvision of access for site investigationProvision of access for construction2/1 2/12/1 2/12/154 70 75Reprofiling of groundReprofiling of groundReprofiling of ground2/13 2/1 2/14105, 106107200, 201Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/281,3,7,9,29, 31, 43Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/281 to 3 118a, 121Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/28￼￼Parish of Little MissendenDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WendoverDistrict of Wycombe Parish of EllesboroughDistrict of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stoke MandervilleProtectiveworks towatercourse 10Reprofiling of groundDewateringoperations 1520Reprofiling of 25 ground30354045Reprofiling of groundReprofiling of ground￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works315(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) (2) Area Number of land shown(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised workson deposited plans5101520253035404550￼2, 5, 12Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/284, 7 to 14, 16, 17, 19, 25 to 27Implementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead line electric lines12, 22, 23 99Reprofiling of groundRemoval of utility apparatus2/4915, 26, 28, 30, 34236, 238, 242Removal of utility apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3to6,8,13, 15, 16Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines104Provision of access for constructionProvision of new public right of way19Provision of new public right of way2/4961, 81, 82Removal of utility apparatus2/4969a, 8789 to 91Removal of utility apparatusProvision of new public right of wayParish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellParish of AylesburyParish of WaddesdonParish of QuaintonParish of HogshawParish of Steeple ClaydonParish of Preston BissettParish of ChetwodeCounty of Oxfordshire District of Cherwell Parish of Newton Purcell with ShelswellParish of Finmere1 to 320, 43, 44, 46Provision of new public right of wayRemoval of utility apparatus￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼316High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼50, 53, 61 to 66, 69, 7067 and 68Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of access for utility works30, 58, 59, 6145a 55, 65Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of new public right of wayRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/49 2/492 to 4, 15 to 1710 to 13Removal of utility apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/49Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines1, 1a, 2, 2a, 3a, 4a, 5a, 6a, 7a, 8a, 10a, 11a, 34, 92, 9322, 23, 26, 27aDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines2/492 to 5Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines2, 8a, 40, 41 12a, 37, 45 27Provision of new public right of wayRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus2/1112/111 2/11134, 37, 38Removal of utility apparatus2/111￼Parish of MixburyCounty of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of WestburyParish of TurwestonCounty of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of EvenlyParish of GreatworthParish of Thorpe Manderville5101520253035404550￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works317(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of CulworthParish of Chipping Warden and EdgcoteParish of Aston Le WallsParish of BoddingtonCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-Avon Parish of Wormleighton(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works5101520￼3Removal of utility apparatus2/11142, 55, 56, 70102Removal of utility apparatusProvision of new public right of way2/111 2/128b12Provision of new public right of way2/1115 2144, 79, 83, 84, 100, 102Provision of new public right of wayDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusRemoval of utility apparatus2/111 2/1292/11133374145, 51, 57Reprofiling of groundProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of ground2/1332/1372/1332/133￼￼￼￼Reprofiling of ground2530354045Reprofiling of ground￼Parish of Stoneton 23Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenance2/133
￼￼￼318High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried outProvision of environmental mitigation10Reprofiling of 15 ground2025305￼26Provision of worksite and access for construction and maintenance2/13317, 274Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of ground2/1392/1334, 11Provision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of ground2/13320Provision of worksite and access for construction2/142c4, 5Provision of access for construction2/14614, 1646 72Provision of worksite and access for constructionReprofiling of groundReprofiling of groundProvision of access for construction and maintenance2/1462/146 2/146￼Parish of RadbournParish of LadbrokeParish of SouthamParish of UftonDistrict of Warwick Parish of OffchurchReprofiling of ground￼￼￼￼￼Parish of 8 CubbingtonProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceProvision of balancing pond and associated works and access for maintenanceReprofiling ofground 35Reprofiling of 40 ground45 50
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works319(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of StoneleighParish of Burton GreenMetropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BerkswellParish of Chelmsley WoodCounty of Warwickshire District of North Warwickshire Parish of Coleshill(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works51015202530￼63Provision of worksite and access for construction2/16330, 46, 85, 86156Removal of utility apparatusProvision of environmental mitigationUtility diversion2/17536Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines19 to 23, 27, 29Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines10, 16, 7019 to 63, 65, 66, 68Provision of worksite and access for constructionImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line works3/25Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼￼￼￼￼1d72, 76, 79, 80, 81, 82, 84, 86, 88, 112a, 261, 262, 265, 273, 307, 311, 356418421, 423, 426, 429Provision of access for utility worksProvision of access for utility worksReprofiling of groundRemoval of utility apparatusImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesReprofiling of groundDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines35404550
￼￼￼320Parish of CurdworthHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼1420, 198, 207, 23253124, 158Provision of access for utility worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/364, 6a, 7, 10Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines1423Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesReprofiling of groundDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/3636, 37a, 64 68a86, 136, 138, 141, 142, 147, 154Removal of utility apparatusProvision of access for utility worksReprofiling of ground3/48 3/50a 3/48￼Parish of WishawParish of Middleton51015202530￼Reprofiling of ground354045￼Reprofiling of ground￼County of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Drayton Bassett491, 125, 121, 126, 127Reprofiling of groundDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/48Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesReprofiling of ground
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works321(5) Specified works which may be carried out￼￼￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of FazeleyParish of HintsParish of WeefordParish of Swinfen and PackingtonParish of Whittington(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works510152025￼1Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines32, 34, 36, 40 to 44, 46136 to 138Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesRemoval of utility apparatusDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatus1 to 4Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines1347, 49, 52, 53Provision of access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/48Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼￼￼￼61, 82, 8459a, 65, 76, 78, 85, 87, 89, 139, 141, 143, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 153, 15486, 90 138Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesReprofiling of groundImplementation of protective measures for land beneath overhead line worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/48Diversion and installation of overhead electric lines303540Reprofiling of 45 ground50
￼￼￼322Parish of ElfordParish of LichfieldParish of Fradley and StreethayParish of Curborough and ElmhurstParish of LongdonParish of King’s BromleyParish of Armitage with HandsacreParish of Mavesyn RidwareHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried out510152025303540￼1, 2, 3Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines45Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/1121, 2139Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/1124, 5Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines12Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines21, 33, 35, 153132Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines3/10421, 22Provision of worksite and access for construction3/106￼￼￼￼￼￼￼1, 2, 3, 42aProvision of worksite and access for constructionInstallation of signal gantriesInstallation of signal gantriesInstallation of signal gantriesInstallation ofsignal gantries 45Installation of signal gantries
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of landPart 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works323(5) Specified works which may be carried outInstallation of signal gantries10￼￼￼￼￼(1) AreaParish of ColtonCounty of Staffordshire Borough of StaffordParish of ColwichMetropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BickenhillCounty of Warwickshire District of North Warwickshire Parish of Little PackingtonCity of Birmingham(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works5￼1, 202, 3, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 19, 21, 22Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionInstallation of signal gantriesInstallation of signal gantries1, 3, 7, 97a,2,4,5,6, 8, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26Provision of worksite and access for constructionProvision of worksite and access for constructionInstallation of signal gantriesInstallation of signal gantries3b3841aProvision of access for utility worksProvision of worksite and access for constructionDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines6aProvision of access for utility worksDiversion and installation of overhead electric lines￼￼￼￼57, 59, 61172, 174, 176191Diversion or installation of, or works to, utilities apparatusProvision of worksite and access for constructionUse of sidings3/2003/2073/205Installation ofsignal gantries 152025Diversion and installation ofoverheadelectric lines 3035 4045
￼￼￼324High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 15 — Temporary possession and use of land Part 4 — Land which may be occupied and used for construction of works￼￼￼￼￼Introductory30(1) Area(2) Number of land shown on deposited plans(3) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken(4) Specified authorised works(5) Specified works which may be carried outProvision ofdrainage and 15 associatedworksDiversion and installation ofoverhead 20 electric lines25SCHEDULE 16CONDITIONS OF DEEMED PLANNING PERMISSION PART 1CONDITIONSSection 19(3)1 The requirements in paragraphs 2 to 12 are conditions of deemed planning permission under section 19(1).Condition relating to building works2 (1) Totheextentthatdevelopmentconsistsofbuildingworks,itmustbecarriedout in accordance with plans and specifications for the time being approved 35 by the relevant planning authority.(2) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the development is carried out.(3) The relevant planning authority may, on approving a plan or specification 40 for the purposes of this paragraph, specify any respect in which it requires additional details of the building works to be submitted for approval.510￼300412446, 451Provision of worksite and access for construction Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesProvision of drainage and associated worksProvision of worksite and access for construction Diversion and installation of overhead electric linesDiversion and installation of overhead electric linesHighway works3/205￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions325￼(4) Wheretherelevantplanningauthorityexercisesthepowerconferredunder sub-paragraph (3), the plans and specifications referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, as regards the specified respect, include a plan or specification showing the additional details.(5) If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, it may only 5 refuse to approve plans or specifications for the purposes of this paragraphon the ground that—(a) the design or external appearance of the building works ought to be modified—(i) to preserve the local environment or local amenity, 10(ii) to prevent or reduce prejudicial effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in the local area, or(iii) to preserve a site of archaeological or historic interest or nature conservation value,and is reasonably capable of being so modified, or 15(b) the development ought to, and could reasonably, be carried outelsewhere within the development’s permitted limits.(6) If the relevant planning authority is not a qualifying authority, it may onlyrefuse to approve plans or specifications for the purposes of this paragraphon the ground that— 20(a) the design or external appearance of the building works ought to be modified to preserve the local environment or local amenity and is reasonably capable of being so modified, or(b) the development ought to, and could reasonably, be carried out elsewhere within the development’s permitted limits. 25(7) The relevant planning authority may only impose conditions on approval for the purposes of this paragraph—(a) with the agreement of the nominated undertaker, and(b) on a ground referred to in sub-paragraph (5) or (6) (as the case maybe). 30(8) In this paragraph, “building works” means the erection, construction,alteration or extension of any building, other than a temporary building.(9) For these purposes, a building ancillary to a scheduled work is only a temporary building if it is intended to remain in place for no longer than twoyears after the date on which the scheduled work is brought into general use. 35(10) The requirements in this paragraph do not apply to building works to the extent that they are ancillary to development consisting of—(a) the disposal of waste or spoil, or(b) the excavation of bulk materials from borrow pits,(and see paragraph 7 as to such development). 40Condition relating to other construction works3 (1) If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, development to which this paragraph applies must be carried out in accordance with plans and specifications for the time being approved by that authority.(2) This paragraph applies to development to the extent that it consists of the 45 construction of any of the following—
￼￼￼326High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions￼(a) a road vehicle park;(b) earthworks;(c) sight, noise or dust screens;(d) transformers, telecommunications masts or pedestrian accesses torailway lines; 5(e) fences or walls;(f) lighting equipment.(3) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthorityor, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the developmentis carried out. 10(4) The relevant planning authority may, on approving a plan or specification for the purposes of this paragraph, specify any respect in which it requires there to be submitted for approval additional details of the operation or work which gives rise to the need for approval under sub-paragraph (1).(5) Where the relevant planning authority exercises the power conferred under 15 sub-paragraph (4), the plans and specifications in accordance with which the development is required under sub-paragraph (1) to be carried out must, as regards the specified respect, include a plan or specification showing the additional details.(6) The relevant planning authority may only refuse to approve plans or 20 specifications for the purposes of this paragraph on a ground specified in relation to the work in question in the following table.￼DevelopmentPossible grounds for refusal of approvalThat the design or external appearanceof the works ought to, and could 25 reasonably, be modified—(a) to preserve the local environment or local amenity,(b) to prevent or reduce prejudicialeffects on road safety or on the 30 free flow of traffic in the localarea, or(c) to preserve a site of archaeological or historicinterest or nature conservation 35 value.That the development ought to, andcould reasonably, be carried out elsewhere within the development’s permitted limits. 40￼1. A road vehicle park.￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — ConditionsDevelopment2. Earthworks.3. Sight, noise or dust screens.327￼￼Possible grounds for refusal of approval￼￼4. Transformers, telecommunications masts or pedestrian accesses to railway lines.5. Fences and walls (except for sight, noise and dust screens).6. Artificial lighting equipment.That the design or external appearance of the works ought to, and could reasonably, be modified—(a) to preserve the local 5 environment or local amenity,(b) to prevent or reduce prejudicialeffects on road safety or on thefree flow of traffic in the localarea, or 10(c) to preserve a site of archaeological or historic interest or nature conservation value.If the development does not form part 15 of a scheduled work, that the development ought to, and could reasonably, be carried out elsewherewithin the development’s permittedlimits. 20That the design or external appearance of the works ought to, and could reasonably, be modified to preserve the local environment or local amenity.That the development ought to, and 25 could reasonably, be carried out onland elsewhere within development’s permitted limits.the￼That the development ought to, andcould reasonably, be carried out 30 elsewhere within the development’s permitted limits.That the design of the equipment, withrespect to the emission of light, oughtto, and could reasonably, be modified 35 to preserve the local environment orlocal amenity.If the development does not form partof a scheduled work, that the development ought to, and could 40 reasonably, be carried out elsewherewithin the development’s permittedlimits.￼(7) The relevant planning authority may only impose conditions on approvalfor the purposes of this paragraph— 45(a) with the agreement of the nominated undertaker, and
￼￼￼328High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions(b) on a ground specified in the table in sub-paragraph (6) in relation to the work in question.￼(8) Anyreferenceinsub-paragraph(2)or(6)toadescriptionofworksdoesnot include works of that description of a temporary nature.(9) In this paragraph— 5 “construction” includes erection, alteration, extension and (in the caseof lighting equipment) installation;“earthworks” means terracing, cuttings, embankments or other earth works;“road vehicle park” does not include anything which is a building; 10 “sight, noise or dust screens” means any fences, walls or other barriers (including bunds) for visual or noise screening or dust suppression;(10) The requirements in this paragraph do not apply where development to which this paragraph applies is ancillary to development consisting of—(a) the disposal of waste or spoil, or 15(b) the excavation of bulk materials from borrow pits,(and see paragraph 7 as to such development).Condition relating to matters ancillary to development4 (1)If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, developmentmust be carried out in accordance with arrangements about ancillary 20 matters which have been approved by that authority.(2) In this paragraph “ancillary matters” means—(a) handling of re-useable spoil or topsoil;(b) storage sites for construction materials, spoil or topsoil;(c) construction camps; 25(d) works screening;(e) artificial lighting;(f) dust suppression;(g) road mud control measures.(3) In this paragraph, “relevant planning authority” means, subject to sub- 30 paragraph (4), the unitary authority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the development is carried out.(4) Wherethedevelopmentisinanon-unitaryareaandconsistsofwasteorsoil disposal or the excavation of bulk material from borrow pits, the relevant planning authority in respect of arrangements relating to ancillary matters 35 is the county council.(5) The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to arrangements does not, in the case of artificial lighting, include detailed arrangements.(6) The relevant planning authority may only refuse to approve arrangementsfor the purposes of this paragraph— 40(a) on the ground that the arrangements relate to development which,for the purposes of regulating the matter in question, ought to andcan reasonably be considered in conjunction with other developmentwhich has deemed planning permission under section 19(1) andwhich is to be carried out in the authority’s area, or 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions329￼(b) on a ground specified in relation to the matter in the following table.￼Matters1. Handling of re-useable spoil and topsoil2. Storage sites for construction materials, spoil or topsoil.3. Construction camps.4. Works screening.5. Artificial lighting. 6. Dust suppression.7. Road mud control measures.GroundsThat the arrangements ought to be modified to ensure that the spoil ortopsoil remains in good condition, and 5 are reasonably capable of being so modified.That the arrangements ought to be modified—(a) to preserve the local 10 environment, local amenity or asite of archaeological or historicinterest or nature conservationvalue, or(b) to prevent or reduce prejudicial 15effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in the local area,and are reasonably capable of being so modified. 20That the arrangements ought to be modified to preserve the local environment or local amenity, and are reasonably capable of being so modified. 25That the arrangements ought to be modified—(a) to preserve the local environment or local amenity,or 30(b) to prevent or reduce prejudicial effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in the local area,and are reasonably capable of being so 35 modified.￼￼￼￼(7) The relevant planning authority may only impose conditions on approval for the purposes of this paragraph—(a) with the agreement of the nominated undertaker, and(b) on a ground specified in the table in sub-paragraph (6)(b) in relation 40to the matter in question.(8) In this paragraph—“artificial lighting” means the use of artificial lighting on land within the Act limits for the purpose of carrying out the development;
￼￼￼330High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions“construction camps” means sites on land within the Act limits which are to be used for the residential accommodation of persons engaged in carrying out the development;“construction materials” means minerals, aggregates or other construction materials required for the development; 5“dust suppression” means the suppression of dust caused by construction operations carried out on land within the Act limits for the purpose of carrying out the development;“handling of re-useable spoil and topsoil” means handling during removal, storage and re-use of any spoil or topsoil removed during 10 the course of carrying out the development;“road mud control measures” means measures to be taken on land within the Act limits to prevent or reduce the carrying of mud on to any public highway as a result of carrying out the development;“storage sites” means sites on land within the Act limits at which 15 materials are to be stored until used or re-used in carrying out the development or disposed of as waste;“works screening” means the provision where necessary on land withinthe Act limits of any screening for working sites on such land required for the purpose of carrying out the development. 20The Secretary of State may for the purposes of paragraph 4 make a class approval of arrangements relating to the ancillary matters referred to in paragraph 4(2)(a), (b) and (d) to (g) above.￼5 (1)(2) A class approval may be made—(a) generally or in relation to specific areas or specific descriptions of 25works, and(b) subject to conditions.(3) A class approval may make different provision for different cases.(4) Before making a class approval the Secretary of State must consult theplanning authorities who would be affected by it. 30(5) Where arrangements made by the nominated undertaker are approved under a class approval, they do not require the approval of the relevant planning authority under paragraph 4.(6) But the nominated undertaker may in the case of any particular arrangements request approval under paragraph 4. 35(7) Iftherelevantplanningauthoritytowhichsucharequestismadeconsiders that the circumstances of the case justify it, the authority may grant approval under paragraph 4 (and, accordingly, the arrangements are subject to that approval instead of the class approval).(8) A class approval may be varied or revoked. 40Condition relating to road transport6 (1) If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, development must, with respect to the matters to which this paragraph applies, be carried out in accordance with arrangements approved by that authority.(2) The matters to which this paragraph applies are the routes by which 45 anything is to be transported on a highway by a large goods vehicle to—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions(a) a working or storage site,(b) a site where it will be re-used, or(c) a waste disposal site.331￼(3) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthorityor, in a non-unitary area, the county council in whose area the development 5 is carried out.(4) Sub-paragraph(1)doesnotrequirearrangementstobeapprovedinrelation to—(a) transportation on a special road or trunk road, or(b) transportation to a site where the number of large goods vehicle 10movements (whether to or from the site) does not on any day exceed 24.(5) The relevant planning authority may only refuse to approve arrangements for the purposes of this paragraph on the ground that—(a) the arrangements relate to development which, for the purposes of 15 regulating the matter in question, ought to and can reasonably be considered in conjunction with development which has deemed planning permission under section 19(1) and which is to be carriedout in the authority’s area, or(b) the arrangements ought to be modified— 20(i) to preserve the local environment or local amenity,(ii) to prevent or reduce prejudicial effects on road safety or onthe free flow of traffic in the local area, or(iii) to preserve a site of archaeological or historic interest ornature conservation value, 25and are reasonably capable of being so modified.(6) The relevant planning authority may only impose conditions on approval for the purposes of this paragraph—(a) with the agreement of the nominated undertaker, and(b) on the ground referred to in sub-paragraph (5)(b). 30(7) In this paragraph—“large goods vehicle” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of the RoadTraffic Act 1988;“special road” and “trunk road” have the same meanings as in theHighways Act 1980. 35Conditions relating to waste and soil disposal and excavation7 (1) If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, development to which this paragraph applies must be carried out in accordance with plans and specifications for the time being approved by that authority.(2) This paragraph applies to development to the extent that it consists of— 40(a) waste and soil disposal, or(b) the excavation of bulk materials from borrow pits.(3) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthorityor, in a non-unitary area, the county council in whose area the developmentis carried out. 45
￼￼￼332High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions￼8(4) The relevant planning authority may, on approving a plan or specification for the purposes of this paragraph, specify any respect in which it requires there to be submitted for approval additional details of the operation or work which gives rise to the need for approval under sub-paragraph (1).(5) Where the relevant planning authority exercises the power conferred under 5 sub-paragraph (4), the plans and specifications in accordance with which the development is required under sub-paragraph (1) to be carried out must, as regards the specified respect, include a plan or specification showing the additional details.(6) The relevant planning authority may only refuse to approve plans or 10 specifications for the purposes of this paragraph on a ground specified in sub-paragraph (7) or (8).(7) The grounds in this sub-paragraph are that—(a) the design or external appearance of disposal sites (in the case of the disposal of waste and soil) or borrow pits (in the case of excavation 15 of bulk material from such pits) on land within the Act limits,(b) the methods by which such sites or pits are worked, or(c) the noise, dust, vibration or screening arrangements during theoperation of such sites or pits,ought to, and could reasonably, be modified. 20(8) The grounds in this sub-paragraph are that in order to—(a) preserve the local environment or local amenity,(b) prevent or reduce prejudicial effects on road safety or on the free flow of traffic in the local area, or(c) preserve a site of archaeological or historic interest or nature 25 conservation value,the development ought to, and could reasonably, be carried out elsewhere within the development’s permitted limits.(9) Thegroundsinsub-paragraph(8)donotapplywherethedevelopmentis—(a) within the limits of deviation for the scheduled works, or 30(b) consists of the use of land specified in columns (1) and (2) ofSchedule 5 for a purpose specified in relation to the land in column (3) of that Part.(10) The relevant planning authority may only impose conditions on approvalfor the purposes of this paragraph— 35(a) with the approval of the nominated undertaker, and(b) on a ground referred to in sub-paragraph (7) or (8) (taken with sub-paragraph (9)).(1) If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, development towhich paragraph 7 applies may not be begun unless the authority has 40 approved a scheme for the restoration of the land on which the developmentis to be carried out.(2) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”hasthesamemeaningasin paragraph 7.(3) The relevant planning authority may only refuse to approve, or impose 45 conditions on the approval of, a scheme for the purposes of this paragraph
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions333￼on the ground that the scheme ought to be modified, and is reasonably capable of being modified.(4) The nominated undertaker must carry out a scheme approved for the purposes of this paragraph once it has completed its use of the land to whichthe scheme relates for the purpose of carrying out the development to which 5 paragraph 7 applies.(5) In sub-paragraph (1), the reference to restoration includes a reference to restoration in the longer term; and, accordingly, a scheme for the restoration of land may include provision about aftercare.Conditions on bringing scheduled works and depots into use 109 (1) (2)(3) (4)(5)(6)If the relevant planning authority is a qualifying authority, no work to which this paragraph applies may be brought into use without the approval of that authority.Thisparagraphappliesto—(a) any scheduled work, except to the extent that the work is 15 underground, and(b) any depot constructed, in exercise of the powers conferred under thisAct, for use for or in connection with the maintenance of railway vehicles or track, whether or not constructed for use also for other purposes. 20Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the work is carried out.Therelevantplanningauthoritymustgrantapprovalforthepurposesofthis paragraph if— 25(a) it considers that there are no reasonably practicable measures which need to be taken for the purpose of mitigating the effect of the work or its operation on the local environment or local amenity, or(b) it has approved, at the request of the nominated undertaker, a scheme consisting of provision with respect to the taking of 30 measures for that purpose.The relevant planning authority may not refuse to approve, or impose conditions on the approval of, a scheme submitted for the purposes of sub- paragraph (4)(b) unless it is satisfied that it is expedient to do so on the ground that the scheme ought to be modified— 35(a) to preserve the local environment or local amenity,(b) to preserve a site of archaeological or historic interest, or(c) in the interests of nature conservation,and that the scheme is reasonably capable of being so modified.In this paragraph “railway vehicle” and “track” have the same meanings as 40 in Part 1 of the Railways Act 1993.Where the relevant planning authority approves a scheme for the purposes of paragraph 9(4)(b), the nominated undertaker must—(a) carry out the scheme, and(b) comply with any condition subject to which the scheme is approved. 4510
￼￼￼334High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions￼Condition relating to discontinuation of ancillary operations11 Where development consists of or includes the carrying out on any site of operations ancillary to the construction of any of the scheduled works, the operations must be discontinued as soon as reasonably practicable after the completion of the scheduled work or works. 5Condition relating to site restoration12 (1)The nominated undertaker must, after discontinuation of the use of any sitefor carrying out operations ancillary to the construction of any of the scheduled works, restore the site in accordance with a scheme agreed withthe relevant planning authority. 10(2) Inthisparagraph“relevantplanningauthority”meanstheunitaryauthority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the work is carried out.(3) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) the nominated undertaker must,within four months of the discontinuation of the use, submit a proposed 15 scheme to the relevant planning authority.(4) If—(a) the nominated undertaker fails to submit a proposed scheme in accordance with sub-paragraph (3), or(b) the nominated undertaker submits a proposed scheme in accordance 20 with sub-paragraph (3) but no scheme is agreed for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) before the end of the relevant period,the scheme for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) is to be such as the appropriate Ministers may determine after consulting the nominated undertaker and the relevant planning authority. 25(5) In sub-paragraph (4)(b) “the relevant period” means—(a) eight weeks beginning with the date on which the proposed schemeis submitted, or(b) such longer period as the nominated undertaker and the relevantplanning authority may agree. 30(6) A scheme agreed or determined for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) may reserve particulars for subsequent agreement between the nominated undertaker and the relevant planning authority.(7) Where a particular reserved under sub-paragraph (6) is not agreed—(a) by the time specified by or determined in accordance with the 35scheme, or(b) by such later time as the nominated undertaker and the relevant planning authority may agree,that particular is to be determined by the appropriate Ministers after consulting the nominated undertaker and the authority. 40(8) Where, independently of any consultation under sub-paragraph (4) or (7),the appropriate Ministers ask the relevant planning authority for assistancein connection with their function under the sub-paragraph in question, theymay require the nominated undertaker to reimburse to the relevant planning authority any expenses which the authority reasonably incurs in 45 meeting the request.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 1 — Conditions335￼(9) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a site—(a) to the extent that the site consists of land to which a scheme underparagraph 8 (waste or spoil etc) applies, or(b) in relation to which the nominated undertaker is subject to an obligation under paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 15 (obligation to put 5 land into such condition as an agreed scheme provides, before givingup possession of the land).PART 2 QUALIFYING AUTHORITIESSpecification of qualifying authorities 1013 (1)As soon after the day on which this Act is passed as the Secretary of State considers reasonably practicable, the Secretary of State must by order specify every planning authority which—(a) had, on or before the day on which the Bill for this Act was reportedfrom Select Committee in the House of Lords, given the Secretary of 15 State undertakings with respect to the handling of planning matters arising under this Schedule which he or she considered satisfactory,and(b) has not subsequently been released from its undertakings.(2) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, an authority which is 20 specified under sub-paragraph (1) is a qualifying authority for the purposesof this Schedule.(3) The Secretary of State may, if he or she considers it expedient to do so, byorder provide that an authority is to cease to be a qualifying authority for the purposes of this Schedule. 25(4) If, in relation to a planning authority which is not a qualifying authority forthe purposes of this Schedule, the Secretary of State considers that the wayin which the authority carries out its functions has been significantly affected by a change of circumstances occurring since the relevant day, the Secretary of State may by order provide that the authority is to be a 30 qualifying authority for the purposes of this Schedule.(5) In sub-paragraph (4), the reference to the relevant day is—(a) in relation to an authority which has never been a qualifying authority for the purposes of this Schedule, to the day mentioned insub-paragraph (1)(a), and 35(b) in relation to an authority which has been a qualifying authority for the purposes of this Schedule, to the day on which it ceased, or last ceased, to be such an authority.(6) Beforemakinganorderundersub-paragraph(3)or(4),theSecretaryofStatemust consult— 40(a) the nominated undertaker, and(b) unless the authority concerned has requested the making of the order, that authority.
￼￼￼336TransitionHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 2 — Qualifying authorities￼14 (1) An order under paragraph 13 may contain such transitional provision and savings as the Secretary of State thinks fit.(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (1), provision underthat sub-paragraph may include provision with respect to the effect of the 5 authority becoming or ceasing to be a qualifying authority in relation to an approval which has already been requested or given.(3) The Secretary of State may by agreement fetter the exercise of his or her discretion under sub-paragraph (1).PART 3 10 APPROVALS: SUPPLEMENTARYRequests for planning approval15 A planning authority may only grant approval under Part 1 of this Schedule at the request of the nominated undertaker.16 (1) A planning authority need not consider a request for approval under Part 1 15 of this Schedule unless—(a) the nominated undertaker has deposited with the authority a document setting out its proposed programme with respect to the making of requests under that Part to the authority, and(b) the request is accompanied by a document explaining how the 20 matters to which the request relates fit into the overall scheme of theworks authorised by this Act.(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a request for approval of additional details.Fees for requests for approval 2517 (1)The appropriate Ministers may by regulations make provision about fees for requests to a planning authority for approval under Part 1 of this Schedule.(2) Regulations under this paragraph may, in particular, make provision—(a) for the payment of a fee and for the amount of a fee;(b) about when a fee must be paid; 30(c) for circumstances in which a fee is to be treated as paid;(d) for the remission or refunding of a fee in whole or part;(e) about the consequences of non-payment of a fee, including provision for the termination of the application concerned or any appealagainst its refusal; 35(f) for the resolution of disputes.(3) Regulations under this paragraph may make such supplementary, incidental or consequential provision as the appropriate Ministers think fit.(4) Nothinginregulationsundersection303oftheTownandCountryPlanningAct 1990 (fees for planning applications) applies to a request for approval 40 under Part 1 of this Schedule.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 3 — Approvals: supplementaryConsultation on requests for approval337￼18 (1)This paragraph applies where a planning authority considers that a request for approval under Part 1 of this Schedule relates to matters which may affect any of the following—(a) nature conservation, 5(b) the conservation of the natural beauty or amenity of the countryside,(c) the conservation of the natural beauty or amenity of inland or coastalwaters or land associated with them,(d) the conservation of flora or fauna which are dependent on an aquatic environment, 10(e) the use of inland or coastal waters, or land associated with them, for recreational purposes, or(f) a site of archaeological or historic interest.(2) The planning authority must, within five days of receiving the request,invite the appropriate body or bodies to make representations. 15(3) The appropriate body is—(a) for the matters in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (b), Natural England,(b) for the matters in sub-paragraph (1)(c) to (e), the Environment Agency,(c) for the matter in sub-paragraph (1)(f), the Historic Buildings and 20 Monuments Commission for England.(4) Where under sub-paragraph (2) a planning authority has invited a body to make representations about a request for approval under Part 1 of this Schedule, it must not make any decision about the request until—(a) it has received representations from the body about the request, 25(b) it has been informed by the body that it does not wish to make anyrepresentations, or(c) 21 days have elapsed since the date of the invitation.(5) An invitation under sub-paragraph (2) must specify the time limit for making representations. 30Directions restricting powers of approval19 (1) The appropriate Ministers may by directions restrict a planning authority’s powers in relation to the giving of approval under Part 1 of this Schedule.(2) Directions under this paragraph may—(a) be given in relation to a specified approval or approvals of a 35specified description,(b) be expressed to have effect without a time-limit or during a specified period, and(c) revoke or vary previous directions under this paragraph.Compulsory reference of requests for approval 4020 (1) The appropriate Ministers may by directions require a planning authority to refer any request for approval under Part 1 to them.
￼￼￼338High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 3 — Approvals: supplementary￼21 (1)A planning authority may at the request of the nominated undertaker make a non-material change to any approval given under Part 1 of this Schedule.(2) In determining a request referred to them under this paragraph, the appropriate Ministers have the same powers as the authority making the reference.(3) ThedeterminationbytheappropriateMinistersofarequestreferredtothemunder this paragraph is final. 5(4) Directions under this paragraph may—(a) be given in relation to a specified request or requests of a specifieddescription, and(b) revoke or vary previous directions under this paragraph.Non-material changes to approvals 10(2) In deciding whether a change is material, a planning authority must haveregard to the effect of the change, together with any previous changes madeunder this paragraph, on the approval as originally given. 15(3) The power under sub-paragraph (1) includes power to impose new conditions or to alter or remove existing conditions.(4) The approval as changed must represent an approval the authority could have given originally.(5) The consultation requirements in this Part of this Schedule do not apply to a 20 change under this paragraph.Appeals22 (1)Where the nominated undertaker is aggrieved by a decision of a planning authority on a request for approval under Part 1 (including a decision to require additional details), it may appeal to the appropriate Ministers by 25 giving notice of the appeal in the prescribed form to them and to the authority whose decision is appealed against within 42 days of notificationof the decision.(2) Onanappealunderthisparagraph,theappropriateMinistersmayallowor dismiss the appeal or vary the decision of the authority whose decision is 30 appealed against, but may only make a determination involving—(a) the refusal of approval, or(b) the imposition of conditions on approval,on a ground open to that authority.(3) Where, following receipt by a planning authority of a request by the 35 nominated undertaker for approval under Part 1, the authority does notnotify the undertaker within the appropriate period—(a) of its decision on the request, or(b) that the request has been referred to the appropriate Ministers inaccordance with directions under paragraph 20, 40this paragraph applies as if the authority had refused the request and notified the undertaker of its decision on the last day of the appropriate period.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 3 — Approvals: supplementary339￼(4) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3), the appropriate period is the period of 8 weeks beginning with the date on which the request was received by the planning authority or such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the authority and the nominated undertaker.(5) The appropriate Ministers may by regulations make provision for the 5 extension of the appropriate period for the purposes of sub-paragraph (3) in connection with the payment of fees by means of cheque.(6) Anagreementundersub-paragraph(4)maybemadeafter,aswellasbefore, the end of the appropriate period.(7) No agreement may be made under sub-paragraph (4) to extend a period 10 after it has ended if the nominated undertaker has given notice of appeal against the refusal which is deemed under sub-paragraph (3) to have occurred because of the ending of the period.(8) Where an agreement under sub-paragraph (4) to extend a period is madeafter the period has ended, sub-paragraph (3) is to be treated as not having 15 applied when the period ended.(9) In this paragraph, “prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made by the appropriate Ministers.(10) No appeal under section 78 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(right to appeal against planning decisions and failure to take such 20 decisions) may be made against a decision, or failure to notify a decision, in relation to which a right of appeal arises under this paragraph.23 (1)Unless the appropriate Ministers direct otherwise, their functions in relationto the determination of an appeal under paragraph 22 must, instead of being carried out by them, be carried out by a person appointed by them for the 25 purpose.2425 (1)The decision of the person appointed under paragraph 23, or, as the case may be, of the appropriate Ministers, on an appeal under paragraph 22 is final.An appeal under paragraph 22 is to be dealt with on the basis of written 45 representations, unless the person deciding the appeal directs otherwise.(2) The appropriate Ministers may by a further direction revoke a direction under sub-paragraph (1) at any time before the determination of the appeal.(3) Adirectionundersub-paragraph(1)or(2)mustbeservedonthenominated undertaker and the planning authority whose decision is appealed against. 30(4) Atanytimebeforethedeterminationofanappealbyapersonappointedfor the purpose under this paragraph, the appropriate Ministers may revoke the appointment and appoint another person to determine the appeal instead.(5) Where the function of determining an appeal under paragraph 22 is transferred from one person to another, the person to whom the function is 35 transferred must consider the matter afresh, but the fact that the function is transferred does not entitle any person to make fresh representations or to modify or withdraw any representations already made.(6) IftheappropriateMinistersdetermineanappealwhichanotherpersonwas previously appointed to determine, they may, in determining it, take into 40 account any report made to them by that person.
￼￼￼340High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 3 — Approvals: supplementary￼(2) Subject to that, the appropriate Ministers may by regulations make such provision as they think fit about procedure in relation to appeals under paragraph 22.(3) Regulations under this paragraph may, in particular—(a) make provision for a time limit within which any person entitled to 5 make representations must submit them in writing and any supporting documents,(b) empower the person deciding an appeal to proceed to a decisiontaking into account only such written representations and supporting documents as were submitted within the time limit, and 10(c) empower the person deciding an appeal, after giving written noticeof intention to do so to the nominated undertaker and the planning authority whose decision is appealed against, to proceed to a decision notwithstanding that no written representations were madewithin the time limit, if it appears to the person that there is sufficient 15 material before the person to enable a decision on the merits of thecase.(4) Regulations under this paragraph may, in relation to such a time limit as is mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(a)—(a) prescribe the time limit in regulations, or 20(b) enable the appropriate Ministers to give directions setting the timelimit in a particular case or class of case.Guidance by Secretary of State26 (1)(2) (3) (4)The Secretary of State may give guidance to planning authorities in relationto the exercise of their functions under this Schedule. 25A planning authority must have regard to the guidance.The guidance may make different provision for different cases. The guidance may be varied or revoked.PART 4SUPPLEMENTARY AND GENERAL 30Regulations and orders27 (1) Regulations under this Schedule may make different provision for different cases.(2) Regulations and orders under this Schedule must be made by statutory instrument. 35(3) A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Schedule, or an order under paragraph 13(3) or (4), is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.Interpretation28 In this Schedule— 40
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 16 — Conditions of deemed planning permission Part 4 — Supplementary and general341￼“appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government and the Secretary of State for Transport and, in relation to the carrying out of any function, means those Ministers acting jointly;“building” includes any structure other than— 5(a) anything in the nature of plant or machinery,(b) any gate, fence, wall or other means of enclosure,(c) any tunnel, earthworks (within the meaning of paragraph 3)or railway track bed,(d) any sight, noise or dust screens (within the meaning of 10paragraph 3),(e) transformers, telecommunication masts or pedestrianaccesses to railway lines,(f) lighting equipment, and(g) anything underground, except where forming part of a 15 station and intended for use by members of the public without a ticket or other permission to travel;“permitted limits”, in relation to any development, means the limits of the land on which the works of which the development forms part may be carried out under this Act;“planning authority” means—(a) a county council;(b) a district council; and(c) a London borough council.SCHEDULE 17 LISTED BUILDINGSBuildings authorised to be demolished, altered or extended1 (1) Thisparagraphappliesto—(a) a listed building which—20Section 24 25(i) was such a building immediately before 30 September 2013, 30 and(ii) is specified in table 1 (see the end of this Schedule), and(b) a listed building which was not such a building immediately beforethat date.(2) If a listed building is one to which this paragraph applies— 35(a) section 7 of the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act (restriction on works affecting listed buildings) does not apply to works carried out in relation to the building in exercise of the powersunder this Act,(b) to the extent that a notice issued in relation to the building under 40section 38(1) of that Act (enforcement) requires the taking of stepswhich would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, byworks proposed to be carried out in exercise of the powers under thisAct, the notice does not have effect or, as the case may be, ceases tohave effect, 45
￼￼￼342High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(c) no steps may be taken in relation to the building under section 42(1)of that Act (execution of works specified in notice under section38(1)) which would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, by works proposed to be carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act, and 5(d) no works may be executed for the preservation of the building under section 54 of that Act (urgent works to preserve unoccupied listed buildings) which would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, by works proposed to be carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act. 10￼(3) In the case of a building specified in table 1 in relation to which any description of works is specified in column (3) of the table, sub-paragraph(2)(a) has effect as if the reference to works carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act were, as regards demolition or alteration works (as opposed to extension works), to works so carried out which are of the 15 specified description.(4) The reference in sub-paragraph (3) to alteration works does not include alteration works carried out for heritage or monitoring purposes (see paragraph 9(2)).Buildings authorised to be altered or extended for heritage or monitoring purposes 202 (1) Thisparagraphappliestoalistedbuildingwhich—(a) was such a building immediately before 30 September 2013, and(b) is specified in table 2 (see the end of this Schedule).(2) In the case of a listed building to which this paragraph applies—(a) section 7 of the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act 25(restriction on works affecting listed buildings) does not apply to alteration or extension works which are carried out, in exercise of the powers under this Act, for heritage or monitoring purposes (see paragraph 9(2)),(b) to the extent that a notice issued in relation to the building under 30 section 38(1) of that Act (enforcement) requires the taking of stepswhich would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, byworks proposed to be carried out in exercise of the powers under thisAct, the notice does not have effect or, as the case may be, ceases tohave effect, 35(c) no steps may be taken in relation to the building under section 42(1) of that Act (execution of works specified in notice under section 38(1)) which would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, by works proposed to be carried out in exercise of thepowers under this Act, and 40(d) no works may be executed for the preservation of the building under section 54 of that Act (urgent works to preserve unoccupied listed buildings) which would be rendered ineffective, or substantially ineffective, by works proposed to be carried out in exercise of thepowers under this Act. 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildingsDamage to buildings343￼3 Section 59 of the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act (acts causing or likely to result in damage to listed buildings) does not apply to anything done in exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works.Power to disapply provision made by paragraphs 1 to 3 54 (1)(2) The provision referred to in sub-paragraph (1) is—The Secretary of State may by order make any provision specified in sub- paragraph (2) in relation to any work constructed in exercise of the powers under this Act.(a) provision that paragraphs 1(2)(a) and 2(2)(a) do not apply in relation 10 to relevant works;(b) provision that paragraphs 1(2)(b) to (d) and 2(2)(b) to 2(2)(d) do not apply in relation to proposed relevant works;(c) provision that paragraph 3 does not apply in relation to relevantworks. 15(3) “Relevant works” means works which are—(a) carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act for themaintenance or alteration of the work referred to in sub-paragraph(1), and(b) begun on or after such day as may be specified in an order under that 20sub-paragraph.(4) An order under sub-paragraph (1) may make different provision for different purposes.(5) An order under sub-paragraph (1) must be made by statutory instrument;and a statutory instrument containing such an order must be laid before 25 Parliament after being made.Heritage partnership agreements5 The provisions of any agreement under section 26A of the Listed Buildingsand Conservation Areas Act (heritage partnership agreements) in relation toa building have effect subject to the powers under this Act with respect to 30 works.Inspection and observation of works6 (1) Any person duly authorised in writing by the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England (“the Commission”) or the relevant planning authority may at any reasonable time enter land for the purpose of 35 inspecting or observing the carrying out in relation to any building on theland of decontrolled works.(2) “Relevant planning authority” means the unitary authority or, in a non- unitary area, the district council in whose area the building is situated.(3) The right under sub-paragraph (1) is not exercisable at a time when the 40 nominated undertaker reasonably considers that it is not safe to exercise it.
￼￼￼344Recording of buildingsHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings￼7 (1)The nominated undertaker must not carry out decontrolled works 5 consisting of the demolition of a listed building unless—(a) notice of the proposal to carry out the works has been given to the Commission, and(b) the appropriate period since the giving of the notice has expired.8 (1)Following the giving of a notice under paragraph 7(1) in relation to a listed building, any person duly authorised in writing by the Commission may, at 20 any reasonable time during the inspection period, enter the building for the purpose of recording it.(4) A person exercising the right under sub-paragraph (1) must comply with directions given by the nominated undertaker for the purpose of securing compliance with relevant health and safety provisions.(2) The appropriate period, subject to sub-paragraph (3), is— 10(a) 8 weeks, or(b) such longer period as may have been agreed between the nominated undertaker and the Commission.(3) Incaseofemergency,theappropriateperiodissuchperiodasisreasonablein the circumstances. 15(4) In determining whether the appropriate period has expired, any day on which entry to the building is refused under paragraph 8(2) is to be disregarded.(2) The right under sub-paragraph (1) is not exercisable at a time when the nominated undertaker reasonably considers that it is not safe to exercise it.(3) A person exercising the right under sub-paragraph (1) must comply with 25 directions given by the nominated undertaker for the purpose of securing compliance with relevant health and safety provisions.(4) Forthepurposesofsub-paragraph(1),theinspectionperiod,inrelationtoa building which is the subject of a notice under paragraph 7(1), is the period— 30(a) beginning when notice under that provision is given, and(b) ending when the prohibition under that provision ceases to apply tothe building.Interpretation9 (1) In this Schedule— 35“building” and “listed building” have the same meanings as in the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act;“decontrolled works” means works to which section 7 of the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act would apply, but for paragraph 1(2)(a) or 2(2)(a) of this Schedule; 40“the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act” means the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings345￼(2) For the purposes of this Schedule, works relating to a building are carried out for heritage or monitoring purposes if the works are carried out for the purpose of—(a) maintaining or restoring the building’s character as a building of special architectural or historical interest, or 5(b) affixing apparatus to any part of the building with a view to measuring any movement in the building or the ground on which it is erected in consequence of the carrying out of works in exercise of the powers under this Act.(3) Anything which, by virtue of section 1(5) of the Listed Buildings and 10 Conservation Areas Act (objects or structures fixed to, or within curtilage of,a building), is treated as part of a building for the purposes of that Act is tobe treated as part of the building for the purposes of this Schedule.TablesTABLE 1: buildings authorised to be demolished, altered or extended 15￼￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Camden(2) Building14 and 15 Melton Street and attached railingsGrade IIMonument to the Christie Family in St James’s Gardens, Hampstead Road Grade IIObelisk to Baron Southampton in south west corner of St James’s Gardens, Hampstead Road Grade IIDrinking Fountain in St James’s Gardens, Hampstead Road Grade IIStatue of Robert Stephenson, Euston Station forecourt, Euston Square Grade IIRailings around Euston Square GardensGrade IIWar Memorial, Euston SquareGrade II(3) Works￼2025303540
￼￼￼346High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(3) Works￼￼￼(1) (2) Area Building￼Pair of stone piers with lamp standards to west end of Mornington Street Railway Bridge, Mornington TerraceGrade IIPair of stone piers with lamp standards to east end of Mornington Street Railway Bridge, Park Village EastGrade IIParkway Tunnel and CuttingGrade IIGloucester Gate Bridge Grade IICamden Road Station, Royal College Street, Bonny Street, Camden Road Grade IIGlebe House Grade IIHartwell House Grade IShepherd’s Furze Farmhouse, Calvert Road Grade IILower Thorpe Farmhouse Grade IIThe Fox and Grapes Public House, 16 Freeman Street, B5Grade IIColeshill Hall Farmhouse, Birmingham RoadGrade II￼County of Buckinghamshire District of Aylesbury Vale Parish of Stone with Bishopstone and Hartwell.Parish of Steeple ClaydonCounty of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of Thorpe MandevilleCity of BirminghamCounty of Warwickshire District of North WarwickshireParish of ColeshillDemolition of the western 15 wall of the cuttingAlteration relating to utility modification worksAlterations relating to the 20 reinstatement of railwayservices on platforms 3 and4 and the use of platform 1by GC gauge trains25Partial demolition ofperimeter estate wall 30 relating to realignment ofA418354045510￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings347￼￼(1) AreaCounty of Staffordshire District of Lichfield Parish of Hints(2) BuildingL-shaped range of farm outbuildings to the north west of Bucks Head FarmhouseGrade II(3) WorksTABLE 2: buildings authorised to be altered or extended for heritage or monitoring purposesDemolition of curtilagestructures (comprisingdetached agricultural 5 building and Buck’s Head Farmhouse with attachedagricultural structure), lyingto the east and south-east ofthe listed building 10￼(1) AreaLondon Borough of Camden(2) Building1-9 (odd and even) Melton Street and attached 15 railingsGrade II*119, 121 and 123 Parkway and attached railings Grade II125 Parkway and attached railings 20 Grade IIYork and Albany Public House, 127 and 129, ParkwayGrade II2-16 (even), 22-34 (even), 36A and 36B and 25 attached railings, Park Village EastGrade II*1-8 (odd and even), 10-14 (odd and even) and17-19 (odd and even) and attached railings,Park Village West 30 Grade II*Two lamp posts outside numbers 8 and 11 Park Village WestGrade IIThe Royal George Public House, 8-14 (even) 35 Eversholt StreetGrade IIRegents Park Barracks Officers’ Mess, RegentsPark Barracks, Block KGrade II 4058 Mornington Terrace and attached wall and gate piersGrade II￼
￼￼￼348High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(2) BuildingEdinburgh Castle Public House, 57Mornington TerraceGrade II 5The Engineer Public House and attached wall, 65 Gloucester AvenueGrade IISwiss Cottage Library, 88 Avenue RoadGrade II 10The Hampstead figure sculpture at Swiss Cottage Library, Avenue RoadGrade IIPrimrose Hill Tunnels (western entrance)Grade II 15Church of All Souls, 21 Loudon Road Grade IIAlexandra Road Estate, including walls, rampsand steps, community centre and boiler houseto Alexandra Road Estate 1-21 (including A 20 and B to each number) 4-119 (including A andB to each number on south side, and A-K toeach number on north side)Grade II*The Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road 25 Grade II*Regency Lodge, Adelaide Road Grade IICamden Incline Winding Engine HouseGrade II* 30Stanley Sidings, stables to the east of bonded warehouseGrade II15-31 (odd) Gloucester AvenueGrade II 351-15 (odd and even) Prince Albert Road Grade II10 Cambridge Avenue Grade IICambridge Hall, Cambridge Avenue 40 Grade II842 Harrow Road Grade IIPerivale Underground Station, HorsendenLane 45 Grade II￼￼(1) Area￼￼London Borough of BrentLondon Borough of Ealing￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(1) AreaRoyal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea349￼￼(2) Building￼Former IBM distribution centre, Green ParkWay, GreenfordGrade II 5Tomb of Andrew Ducrow, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade II*Tomb of John St John Long, Kensal GreenCemetery 10 Grade II*Tomb of Mary Gibson, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade II*Tomb of William Mulready, Royal Academy,Kensal Green Cemetery 15 Grade II*Birkbeck Mausoleum, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IIBlumberg Mausoleum, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade II 20Mausoleum of Baron John Frederick Andrew Huth, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIMausoleum of Captain George Aikman,Kensal Green Cemetery 25 Grade IIMausoleum of James Dunlop, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIMausoleum of James Morison, Kensal Green 30 CemeteryGrade IIMausoleum of Joseph Hudson, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 35Monument to Edward Macklew, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIMonument to Frederick Albert Winsor, KensalGreen Cemetery 40 Grade IIMonument to Major General Sir George de Lacy Evans, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of Maria Tustin, Kensal Green Cemetery 45 Grade II￼
￼￼￼350High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(1) (2)￼￼AreaBuildingMonument to Sir Augustus Wollaston Franks,Kensal Green CemeteryGrade II 5Monument to Sir George Farrant, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIMonument to the Molyneux Family, KensalGreen Cemetery 10 Grade IIMonument to William Holland, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIMonuments to Joseph Locke and Phoebe 15 McCreery, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IISir William Molesworth Mausoleum, KensalGreen CemeteryGrade II 20Tomb of Admiral Sir John Ross, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of Alexander Bruce, Kensal GreenCemetery 25 Grade IITomb of Alfred Cooke, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of David Morris, Kensal GreenCemetery 30 Grade IITomb of Frederick Tillson, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of General Sir Warren Peacocke, Kensal 35 Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of George Cruikshank, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 40Tomb of John Cam Hobhouse, Baron Broughton De Gyfford, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of John Collett, Kensal Green Cemetery 45 Grade II￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(1) (2) Area Building351￼￼￼Tomb of John Gibson, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of John Gordon, Kensal Green Cemetery 5 Grade IITomb of John Murray, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of Joseph Allmond Cropper, KensalGreen Cemetery 10 Grade IITomb of Joseph Durham, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of Lady Ann Isabella Noel Byron, Kensal 15 Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of Marigold Churchill, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 20Tomb of Martha Ross, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of Sarah Smith, Kensal Green Cemetery Grade IITomb of Sir Francis Freeling, Kensal Green 25 CemeteryGrade IITomb of Sir John Dean Paul, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 30Tomb of the Earl of Galloway, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of Thomas Cooke, Kensal GreenCemetery 35 Grade IITomb of Thomas Hood, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of Walter Peart and Henry Dean, Kensal 40 Green CemeteryGrade IITomb of William Chappell, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 45
￼￼￼352High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(2) BuildingTomb to Thomas Daniell RA, Kensal GreenCemeteryGrade II 5Perimeter walls and railings including entrance gateway opposite Wakeman Road, Kensal Green CemeteryGrade IIParish boundary markers, Kensal Green 10 CemeteryGrade II156-170 (even) Fifth Avenue, Paddington Grade II147-167 (odd) Fifth Avenue, Paddington 15 Grade IIBeethoven Street School, Beethoven Street W10 Grade IIHighway FarmhouseGrade II 20Forecourt walls to south of Highway FarmhouseGrade IIFootbridge across River Colne, to north ofDenham Court 25 Grade II*Corner Hall Grade IIBarn to east of Lower Bottom Farm HouseGrade II 30Stable to south of Lower Bottom Farm House Grade IILower Bottom FarmhouseGrade II 35Granary to south-east of Lower Bottom Farm HouseGrade IIParish Church of St GilesGrade I 40The Stone Cottage, attached barn and outbuildingsGrade IIFlag HouseGrade II 45￼￼City of WestminsterLondon Borough of HillingdonCounty of Buckinghamshire District of South Bucks Parish of DenhamCounty of Hertfordshire District of Three RiversCounty of Buckinghamshire District of ChilternParish of AmershamParish of Chalfont St.Giles(1) Area￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(1) AreaParish of Great Missenden353￼￼(2) Building￼￼￼Parish of The LeeDistrict of Aylesbury ValeParish of Stone with Bishopstone and HartwellThe Wellington Cottage and the Green Cottage Grade IIPeterson House 5 Grade IIBarns and outhouses at Hyde Farmhouse Grade IIHyde Farmhouse, Hyde Lane, Hyde Heath,Grade II 10Stable Block at Cottage Farm Grade IIGranary at Cudsden Farm Grade IIBriarwood 15 Grade II86 Kings Lane Grade IISheepcotts CottageGrade II 20South Heath Farmhouse with attached barn Grade IIHunts Green Farmhouse Grade IIBarn to north of Hunts Green Farmhouse 25 Grade IIWhaddon Hill Farmhouse Grade IIPark Lodge 30 Grade IIObelisk south of Hartwell House Grade IIEntrance arch and gates adjoining Park LodgeGrade II 35Pair of statues south of Hartwell House Grade IIThe Hermitage Grade IISunflower Farmhouse 40 Grade IIRosehill Farmhouse Grade II￼￼Parish of ChetwodeParish of Steeple Claydon￼
￼￼￼354High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(2) BuildingOutbuildings to west of Rosehill Farmhouseforming north and west sides of courtyardGrade II 5Church of St Lawrence Grade IGreatworth HallGrade II 10Trafford Bridge Grade IIStone walls, gatepiers and gateways atentrance to Manor HouseGrade II 15Church of St John The Baptist Grade IStoney Thorpe Hall Lodge (not included) gatesand gatepiers approximately 7 metres south ofLodge 20 Grade IIStare Bridge, Stoneleigh Road, Stoneleigh Grade II*East Lodge, Stoneleigh RoadGrade II 25Dale House Farmhouse, Dalehouse Lane, StoneleighGrade IISouth Hurst Farm Cottages, 90 yards northeast of South Hurst Farmhouse, Crackley Lane 30 Grade IIGilson Hall Grade IIBarn 20m southeast of Dunton Hall, KingsburyRoad 35 Grade IIThe Manor House, Ryknield Street Grade IIThe Manor House Plunge Bath, off A517 40 Burton RoadGrade IILawley Street Railway Viaduct, Viaduct Street Grade IIOld Moor Street Station, Birmingham 45 Grade II￼￼(1) Area￼￼County of Northamptonshire District of South Northamptonshire Parish of RadstoneParish of GreatworthParish of CulworthParish of Thorpe MandevilleCounty of Warwickshire District of Stratford-on-Avon Parish of Long ItchingtonDistrict of Warwick Parish of StoneleighDistrict of North Warwickshire Parish of ColeshillParish of CurdworthCounty of Staffordshire District of LichfieldParish of Fradley and StreethayCity of Birmingham￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 17 — Listed buildings(1) Area355￼￼Metropolitan Borough of Solihull Parish of BickenhillParish of BerkswellPark Farmhouse, Chester Road, Bickenhill Grade II*Lavender Hall Farmhouse Grade II*Barn at Lavender Hall Farm Grade IISCHEDULE 18 ANCIENT MONUMENTS1520(2) Building￼British Rail Goods Office (Old Curzon StreetStation), New Canal StreetGrade I 51838 section of railway bridge into Curzon Street Station over Digbeth Branch Canal, Curzon StreetGrade IIThe Woodman Public House, 106 Albert Street 10 Grade II￼￼Disapplication of controls1 (1)This paragraph has effect in relation to the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979.(2) Section2(controlofworksaffectingscheduledmonuments)doesnotapply to works authorised by this Act.(3) The powers of entry under the following provisions are not exercisable in 25 relation to land used for or in connection with the carrying out of any of theworks authorised by this Act—section 6(1) (entry to ascertain condition of scheduled monument); section 6A(1) (entry to enforce control of works affecting scheduledmonument); 30 section 26 (entry to record matters of archaeological or historicalinterest).(4) The provisions of the Act with respect to the functions of a person as a guardian by virtue of the Act, and the provisions of any agreement under section 17 (agreement concerning ancient monuments and land in their 35 vicinity), have effect subject to the powers under this Act with respect to works.(5) Section19(publicaccesstomonumentsunderpubliccontrol)doesnotapplyin relation to a monument which is closed by the nominated undertaker forthe purposes of, or in connection with or in consequence of the carrying out 40 of any of the works authorised by this Act.Section 25
￼￼￼356High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 18 — Ancient monumentsRegulations under section 19(3) or (4A) (which may include provision prohibiting or regulating acts which would tend to injure or disfigure a monument or its amenities or to disturb the public in their enjoyment of it)do not apply to anything done in exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works. 5The power under section 19(6) (power to refuse admission to monuments under public control) is not exercisable so as to prevent or restrict the exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works.In section 25 (treatment of ancient monuments)—(a) subsection (2) (superintendence by Commission) does not authorise 10the superintendence of the carrying out of any of the worksauthorised by this Act, and(b) subsection (3) (power of Commission to charge for advice undersubsection (1)) does not apply in relation to advice given in connection with the carrying out of any of those works. 15Section28(offenceofdamagingcertainancientmonuments)doesnotapply to anything done in exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works.Section 35 (notice required of operations in areas of archaeological importance) does not apply to operations carried out in exercise of the 20 powers under this Act with respect to works.Section 39(1) (power to investigate in advance of operations notice any sitewhich may be acquired compulsorily) has effect as if operations carried outin exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works were exempt operations for the purposes of that provision. 25Section 42(1) (prohibition on use of metal detectors in protected places without consent) does not apply to the use of a metal detector for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works.Section 42(3) (prohibition on removal without consent of object discovered 30 by use of a metal detector in a protected place) does not apply to the removalof objects discovered by the use of a metal detector for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers under this Act with respect to works.The power of entry under section 36(1) of the National Heritage Act 1983 35 (entry to obtain information about ancient monuments and historic buildings for the purposes of the records kept by the Commission) is only exercisable in relation to land used, or intended for use, for or in connectionwith the carrying out of any of the works authorised by this Act with the consent of the nominated undertaker, such consent not to be unreasonably 40 withheld.Consent for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) may be granted subject to compliance with any reasonable requirements or conditions imposed for reasons of safety or for the purpose of preventing interference with or delayto the works. 45Section36(6)oftheNationalHeritageAct1983(which,inrelationtolandon which works are being carried out, regulates the exercise of the right under￼(6)(7) (8)(9) (10) (11)(12)(13)2 (1)(2)(3)
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 18 — Ancient monuments357￼section 36(1) to enter land to obtain information) does not apply in relation to land on which works authorised by this Act are being carried out.(4) Any dispute under this paragraph must be referred to arbitration if the parties so agree, but must otherwise be determined by the Secretary of Statefor Transport and the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport acting 5 jointly.Power to disapply provision made by paragraphs 1 and 23 (1)The Secretary of State may by order make any provision specified in sub- paragraph (2) in relation to any work constructed in exercise of the powersunder this Act. 10(2) The provision referred to in sub-paragraph (1) is—(a) provision that paragraph 1(2) does not apply in relation to relevantworks;(b) provision that paragraph 1(3) does not apply in relation to land usedfor or in connection with the carrying out of relevant works; 15(c) provision that paragraph 1(8)(a) and (b) do not apply in relation to relevant works;(d) provision that paragraph 1(10) and (11) do not apply in relation to operations carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act whichare, or are carried out in connection with, relevant works; 20(e) provision that paragraph 1(12) does not apply in relation to use of a metal detector for the purposes of or in connection with relevant works;(f) provision that paragraph 1(13) does not apply in relation to removalof objects discovered by any such use; 25(g) provision that paragraph 2(1) does not apply in relation to land used, or intended for use, for or in connection with the carrying out of relevant works;(h) provision that paragraph 2(3) does not apply in relation to land onwhich relevant works are being carried out. 30(3) In this paragraph, “relevant works” means works which are—(a) carried out in exercise of the powers under this Act for the maintenance or alteration of the work referred to in sub-paragraph(1), and(b) begun on or after such day as may be specified in an order under that 35subsection.(4) An order under sub-paragraph (1) may make different provision for different purposes.(5) An order under sub-paragraph (1) must be made by statutory instrument;and a statutory instrument containing such an order must be laid before 40 Parliament after being made.Inspection and observation of works etc4 (1) Any person duly authorised in writing by the Commission may at any reasonable time enter land on which (or in or under which) a scheduled monument is situated— 45
￼￼￼358High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 18 — Ancient monuments(a) for the purpose of observing or advising upon the exercise in relation to the land of any of the powers under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Act, or(b) for the purpose of inspecting, observing or advising upon the carrying out of any works on the land in exercise of any of the other 5 powers under this Act.￼(2) The right under sub-paragraph (1) is not exercisable at a time when the nominated undertaker reasonably considers that it is not safe to exercise it.(3) A person exercising the right under sub-paragraph (1) must comply with directions given by the nominated undertaker for the purpose of securing 10 compliance with relevant health and safety provisions.(4) In this paragraph, “scheduled monument” has the same meaning as in the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979.Interpretation5 In this Schedule, references to “the Commission” are to the Historic 15Buildings and Monuments Commission for England.SCHEDULE 19 Section 26 BURIAL GROUNDSNotice of removal of remains or monument1 (1) Before removing from the land in question any remains or any monument 20 to the deceased, the nominated undertaker must—(a) publish in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper circulating in the area where the land is situated, and(b) at the same time leave displayed in a conspicuous place on or nearthe land, 25a notice complying with sub-paragraph (2).(2) Anoticeundersub-paragraph(1)must—(a) identify the land to which it relates,(b) set out in general terms the effect of paragraphs 2 to 7 (so far as relevant to remains to which sub-paragraph (1) applies), 30(c) state where, and in what form, an application under paragraph 2(1) may be made, and(d) state how the nominated undertaker proposes to carry out its functions under this Schedule with respect to the disposal of the remains or monument. 35(3) No notice is required under sub-paragraph (1) before the removal of any remains or any monument to the deceased where the Secretary of State notifies the nominated undertaker that the Secretary of State is satisfied—(a) that the remains were buried more than 100 years ago, and(b) that no relative or personal representative of the deceased is likely to 40 object to the remains or monument being removed in accordancewith this Schedule.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 19 — Burial grounds359￼2 (1)In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph 1(1) applies, the nominated undertaker must issue a licence for the removal of the remains if—(a) it receives an application in writing from a relative or personal representative of the deceased, and(4) No notice is required under sub-paragraph (1) before the removal of any remains or any monument to the deceased if—(a) on the passing of this Act a licence under section 25 of the Burial Act1857 (bodies not to be removed from burial grounds without licenceof the Secretary of State) is in force in relation to the remains, and 5(b) the holder of the licence is the nominated undertaker or a body corporate which is a member of the same group as the nominated undertaker.(5) In sub-paragraph (4)(b), “group” means a body corporate and all otherbodies corporate which are its subsidiaries within the meaning given by 10 section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006.Removal of remains under licence(b) the application is received before the end of the 56 days after the dayon which notice relating to the remains is first published under paragraph 1(1)(a). 20(2) In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph 1(3) applies, the nominated undertaker must issue a licence for the removal of the remains if—(a) it receives an application in writing from a relative or personal representative of the deceased, and 25(b) the application is received before the nominated undertaker has removed the remains under paragraph 4(1).(3) A licensee under this paragraph may remove the remains to which the licence relates and bury them elsewhere or cremate them.(4) The nominated undertaker must pay the reasonable costs of removal and 30 reburial or cremation under this paragraph.Removal of remains by nominated undertaker3 (1) In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph 1(1) applies, the nominated undertaker may remove the remains after the expiry of theperiod of 56 days referred to in paragraph 2(1)— 35(a) if no application under paragraph 2(1) has been received, or(b) in a case where one or more applications under paragraph 2(1) havebeen received, if in the case of each application—(i) a licence has been issued, and(ii) at least 28 days have passed since the issue of the licence 40 without the remains having been removed.(2) The nominated undertaker must within two months of the removal of remains under sub-paragraph (1)—(a) bury them in a place (whether or not consecrated) which is set apartfor the purposes of burial, or 45(b) cremate them in a crematorium.15
￼￼￼360High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 19 — Burial grounds￼4 (1)In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph 1(3) applies, the nominated undertaker may remove the remains—(a) if no application under paragraph 2(2) has been received, or 20(b) in a case where one or more applications under paragraph 2(2) havebeen received, if in the case of each application—(i) a licence has been issued, and(ii) at least 28 days have passed since the issue of the licence without the remains having been removed. 25(3) If—(a) an application is made to the nominated undertaker underparagraph 2(1),(b) the application is refused on the ground that the nominatedundertaker is not satisfied that the applicant is a relative or personal 5 representative of the deceased,(c) within the period of 28 days beginning with the date of the notice of refusal the applicant has applied to the county court for a declarationthat he or she is a relative or personal representative of the deceased(see paragraph 11(2)(b)), and 10(d) that period of 28 days has elapsed without the court having determined the application made to it,the nominated undertaker may remove the remains and any monument to the deceased.(4) The nominated undertaker must, pending the court’s determination, deal 15 with any remains or monument removed under sub-paragraph (3) in such manner as the Secretary of State may direct.(2) The nominated undertaker must after the removal of remains under sub- paragraph (1)—(a) within 12 months or such longer period as the Secretary of State may direct in relation to the case—(i) bury them in a place (whether or not consecrated) which is 30 set apart for the purposes of burial, or(ii) cremate them in a crematorium, or(b) deal with them in such other manner, and subject to such conditions,as the Secretary of State may direct.(3) If—(a) an application is made to the nominated undertaker underparagraph 2(2),(b) the application is refused on the ground that the nominated35undertaker is not satisfied that the applicant is a relative or personal representative of the deceased, 40(c) within the period of 28 days beginning with the date of the notice of refusal the applicant has applied to the county court for a declaration that he or she is a relative or personal representative of the deceased (see paragraph 11(2)(b)), and(d) that period of 28 days has elapsed without the court having 45 determined the application made to it,the nominated undertaker may remove the remains and any monument to the deceased.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 19 — Burial grounds361￼5 (1)In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph 1(4) applies, the nominated undertaker may remove the remains and, if it does so, is to be 5 treated for the purposes of this Act as acting under this paragraph and notunder the licence under the Burial Act 1857.6 (1)Where a licence to remove any remains is issued under paragraph 2(1) or (2), the licensee may remove from the land any monument to the deceased and re-erect it elsewhere or otherwise dispose of it.7 (1)Where any remains are removed under a licence under paragraph 2(1) or (2),the nominated undertaker may remove from the land any monument to the deceased which is not removed by the licensee within 28 days of the issue ofthe licence. 25(4) The nominated undertaker must, pending the court’s determination, deal with any remains or monument removed under sub-paragraph (3) in such manner the Secretary of State may direct.(2) The nominated undertaker must within two months of the removal of remains under sub-paragraph (1)—(a) bury them in a place (whether or not consecrated) which is set apart 10 for the purposes of burial, or(b) cremate them in a crematorium.(3) But if the Secretary of State is satisfied that the remains were buried morethan 100 years ago, the remains are to be dealt with in accordance with paragraph 4(2) instead of sub-paragraph (2). 15Removal of monuments(2) The nominated undertaker must pay the reasonable costs of removal and re- 20 erection under sub-paragraph (1).(2) Where the nominated undertaker removes any remains under paragraph 3, 4 or 5, it may also remove from the land any monument to the deceased.(3) Where any remains are removed (by a person other than the nominated undertaker) under a licence under section 25 of the Burial Act 1857, the nominated undertaker may remove from the land any monument to the 30 deceased which is not removed by the licensee.(4) Thenominatedundertakermayremoveanymonumentremovedunderthis paragraph to the place, if any, where the remains of the deceased are buried or to some other appropriate place.(5) The nominated undertaker must break and deface any monument removed 35 under this paragraph which is not dealt with under sub-paragraph (4).Records8 (1)Whereanyremainsinrelationtowhichparagraph1(1)appliesareremovedunder this Schedule, or remains in relation to which paragraph 1(4) appliesare removed under paragraph 5(2), the nominated undertaker must, within 40 two months of the removal, provide the Registrar General with a certificate which—(a) identifies the remains, so far as practicable,
￼￼￼362High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 19 — Burial grounds(b) states the date on which, and the place from which, the remains were removed, and(c) states the date and place of reburial or cremation.￼(2) Whereanyremainsinrelationtowhichparagraph1(3)appliesareremovedunder this Schedule, or remains in relation to which paragraph 1(4) applies 5 are removed under paragraph 5(3), the nominated undertaker must, within12 months of the removal or such longer period as the Secretary of State maydirect in relation to the case, provide the Registrar General with a certificate which—(a) identifies the remains, so far as practicable, 10(b) states the date on which, and the place from which, the remains wereremoved,(c) if at the time the certificate is provided the remains have been reburied or cremated, states the date and place of reburial or cremation, and 15(d) if at that time the remains have not been reburied or cremated, states where and by whom they are kept.(3) Where any monument is removed under this Schedule, the nominated undertaker must, within two months of the removal—(a) deposit with the local authority in whose area the monument was 20 situated prior to the removal a record which—(i) identifies the monument,(ii) gives any inscription on it,(iii) states the date on which, and the place from which, it was removed, and 25(iv) states the place, if any, to which it was moved or how it was disposed of, and(b) provide the Registrar General with a copy of the record deposited under paragraph (a).(4) The nominated undertaker may require any person who removes remains or 30 a monument under this Schedule to provide it with any information aboutthe remains or monument removed which it needs in order to comply with sub-paragraph (1), (2) or (3).(5) In sub-paragraph (3)(a), “local authority” means the unitary authority or, ina non-unitary area, the district council. 35Discharge of functions by nominated undertaker9 (1) Where the nominated undertaker removes remains in relation to the removal of which a licence has been granted under paragraph 2(1) or (2), it must carry out in accordance with the reasonable requests of the licensee—(a) its functions under paragraph 3 or 4 with respect to disposal of the 40 remains, and(b) if it removes any monument to the deceased, the functions under paragraph 7 with respect to disposal of the monument.(2) Inacasewheremorethanonelicenceisgrantedunderparagraph2(1)or(2)and the licensees make different reasonable requests for the purposes of sub- 45 paragraph (1), the nominated undertaker must carry out the functions referred to in that sub-paragraph in accordance with directions given by the Secretary of State.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 19 — Burial grounds363￼10(3) Directions under sub-paragraph (2) may include directions that—(a) a licensee may apply to the county court to determine how remainsor a monument are to be disposed of, and(b) how the remains or monument are to be dealt with pending thecourt’s determination. 5The Secretary of State may give such directions as the Secretary of State thinks fit with respect to the carrying out of any function under this Schedule.Relatives and personal representatives11 (1) In this Schedule, references to a relative of the deceased are to a person 10 who—(a) is a husband, wife, civil partner, parent, grandparent, child or grandchild of the deceased, or(b) is, or is a child of, a brother, sister, uncle or aunt of the deceased.(2) For the purposes of this Schedule, a person is to be taken to be a relative or 15 personal representative of the deceased if—(a) the nominated undertaker is satisfied that the person is a relative or personal representative of the deceased, or(b) the county court, on the application of the person, has declared thatthe person is a relative or personal representative of the deceased. 20Water abstraction and impounding123 (1)The restriction imposed by section 24(1) of WRA 1991 (restriction on the abstraction of water) does not apply in relation to the abstraction of water for 25 the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the works authorised by this Act.Section 25 of WRA 1991 (restrictions on impounding) does not apply to anything done in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respectto works. 30Section48A(1)ofWRA1991(dutynottocauselossordamagetoanotherby the abstraction of water) does not apply in relation to the abstraction of water in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.SCHEDULE 20 Section 31 WATER(2) Where—(a) the nominated undertaker causes loss or damage to another person 35by the abstraction of water in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, and(b) the circumstances are such that causing the loss or damage wouldhave constituted breach of the duty under section 48A(1) of WRA1991, but for sub-paragraph (1), 40the nominated undertaker must compensate the other person for the loss or damage.
￼￼￼364High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 20 — Water￼(3) Compensation under sub-paragraph (2) is to be assessed on the same basis as damages for breach of the duty under section 48A(1) of WRA 1991.(4) Section 48A(5) of WRA 1991 (prohibition of claims in respect of loss or damage caused by abstraction of water which are not claims under that section) has no application to claims under— 5(a) this paragraph, or(b) Part 5 of Schedule 31.Structures in, over or under a main river4 Section 109 of WRA 1991 (consent required for erection, alteration or repairof structures in, over or under a main river) does not apply to anything done 10 in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.Floods5 Paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to FWMA 2010 (consent required for alteration, removal or replacement of designated feature) does not apply to anythingdone in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works. 15Drainage6 Paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to FWMA 2010 (approval required for drainage system for construction work) does not apply in relation to anything done in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.Communication with public sewers in London 207 Section 106(8) of the Water Industry Act 1991 (which qualifies the general right to communicate with the public sewers of a sewerage undertaker in Greater London) does not apply where the proposed communication involves a drain or sewer serving Phase One of High Speed 2.Eels8 Part 4 of the Eels (England and Wales) Regulations 2009 (S.I. 2009/3344) (passage of eels) does not apply to anything done in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.Interpretation259 In this Schedule— 30 “abstraction” has the same meaning as in WRA 1991;“FWMA 2010” means the Flood and Water Management Act 2010; “WRA 1991” means the Water Resources Act 1991.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 21 — Buildings365Section 32(1)￼Building regulations1 (1)Nothing in—(a) Part 1 of the 1984 Act with respect to building regulations, or 5(b) any building regulations,applies to a building held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.SCHEDULE 21 BUILDINGS(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to a building which is a house 10 or hotel.(3) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to a building which is used as offices or showrooms unless it forms part of a railway station or other railway facility.(4) The reference in sub-paragraph (3) to a “railway facility” includes a 15 maintenance depot, electrical supply facility or stabling facility used for the purposes of a railway.(5) The reference in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to building regulations does not include the provisions listed in regulation 34(1) of the Building Regulations2010 (S.I. 2010/2214) (requirements relating to energy efficiency). 20Drain repairs2 In section 61 of the 1984 Act—(a) subsection (2) (local authority officers to have access to drain repairworks), and(b) subsection (3) (offence for failure to comply with section 61), 25do not apply to the repair, reconstruction or alteration of an underground drain which is carried out for Phase One purposes.Drain disconnections3 Where works described in section 62(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the 1984 Act (reconstruction and other drain works) are carried out for Phase One 30 purposes, section 62 of the 1984 Act (which requires drains to be disconnected when they become disused or unnecessary in consequence of reconstruction and other works) has effect as if—(a) in subsection (1), for “as the local authority may reasonably require”there were substituted “as the person considers necessary”, 35(b) subsections (2) and (3) were omitted,(c) for subsection (4) there were substituted—“(4) Before carrying out works described in subsection (1)(a), (b)or (c), the person carrying out the works must give at least 48hours’ notice to the local authority.”, and 40(d) subsection (5) were omitted.
￼￼￼366Raising of chimneysHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 21 — Buildings￼4 (1)This paragraph applies where—(a) the nominated undertaker is given a notice under section 73(1) of the1984 Act (notice requiring chimney of adjoining building to be raisedand requiring owner or occupier of that building to allow access to it 5 for that purpose),(b) the taller building is a building held, or to be held, by the Secretaryof State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use,by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertakingunder this Act, and 10(c) the owner or occupier of the adjoining building referred to in section 73(1)(b) of the 1984 Act serves a counter-notice on the nominated undertaker.(2) The owner or occupier of the adjoining building may not enter upon relevant Phase One land, for the purposes of carrying out the work to which 15 the counter-notice relates, without the consent of the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker.(3) “Relevant Phase One land” means land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under the Act. 20(4) Where, by reason of the withholding of consent for the purposes of sub- paragraph (2), the owner or occupier of the adjoining building is unable to carry out the work to which the counter-notice relates, the counter-notice ceases to have effect.(5) In this paragraph, references to “the taller building” and a “counter-notice” 25 are to be construed in accordance with section 73 of the 1984 Act.Construction of cellars and rooms below subsoil water level5 (1) Section 74(1) of the 1984 Act (which requires local authority consent for the construction of a cellar or room below subsoil water level in, or as part of, ahouse, shop, inn, hotel or office) does not apply to the construction of a cellar 30 or room in connection with a shop, inn, hotel or office which forms part of a railway station or other railway facility which is being used, or which is intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.(2) The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to a “railway facility” includes a 35 maintenance depot, electrical supply facility or stabling facility used for the purposes of a railway.Interpretation6 In this Schedule—“the 1984 Act” means the Building Act 1984; 40 “building regulations” has the same meaning as in the 1984 Act (seesection 122 of that Act).
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 22 — Party walls etc367￼1 23456 (1)SCHEDULE 22 Section 32(2) PARTY WALLS ETCIn this Schedule, “the 1996 Act” means the Party Wall etc Act 1996.No notice under section 1(2) or (5) of the 1996 Act (notice before building online of junction with adjoining land) is required before the building of any 5 wall for Phase One purposes.Sections 1(6) and 2 of the 1996 Act (rights of adjoining owners) do not have effect to confer rights in relation to—(a) anything held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertakerand used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the 10 purposes of its undertaking under this Act, or(b) land on which there is any such thing.No party structure notice under section 3 of the 1996 Act is required beforethe exercise of any right conferred by section 2 of that Act (right to repair etcparty wall) for the purposes of or in connection with— 15(a) the construction of the works authorised by this Act, or(b) the maintenance of any such work during the period beginning with the date on which the work is completed and ending 5 years after the date on which it is brought into general use.Section 6 of the 1996 Act (underpinning of adjoining buildings) does not 20 apply in relation to a proposal to excavate, or excavate for and erect anything, for Phase One purposes.Where—(a) a building owner (within the meaning of the 1996 Act) serves a noticeunder section 6(5) of that Act, and 25(b) the building or structure of the adjoining owner (within the meaning of that Act) referred to in that provision is a building or structure—(i) erected for Phase One purposes, or(ii) situated on land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker for the purposes of the nominated 30 undertaker’s undertaking under this Act,section 6 of that Act has effect as if it were subject to the following modifications.Those modifications are—(a) that subsection (3) is omitted, and 35(b) the substitution for subsections (6) and (7) of—“(6) The notice referred to in subsection (5) (“the proposals notice”)—(a) shall be accompanied by plans and sections showing— 40(i) the site and depth of any excavation the building owner proposes to make;(ii) if he proposes to erect a building or structure, its site; and(b) where the notice includes a proposal to underpin or 45 otherwise strengthen or safeguard the foundations of(2)
￼￼￼368High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 22 — Party walls etcthe building or structure of the adjoining owner, shall—(i) include a detailed description of those works; and(ii) specify the building owner’s programme for 5 carrying them out.(6A) The adjoining owner may serve a notice on the building owner consenting to the proposals notice.(6B) Where the proposals include the carrying out of works mentioned in subsection (6)(b), the consent notice served 10 under subsection (6A) must state whether the adjoining owner—(a) is to carry out those works himself, or(b) requires the works to be carried out by the buildingowner. 15(7) If an owner on whom a proposals notice has been served doesnot serve a consent notice within the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the proposals notice was served, he shall be deemed to have dissented from the noticeand a dispute shall be deemed to have arisen between the 20 parties.(7A) Works to underpin or otherwise strengthen or safeguard the foundations of the building or structure of the adjoiningowner (whether proposed in the proposals notice or otherwise) are to be carried out by the adjoining owner, 25 unless the building owner is required to carry them out—(a) by virtue of a requirement within subsection (6B)(b), or(b) where a dispute is deemed to have arisen between the parties in relation to any matter, by a notice served by 30 the adjoining owner on the building owner within theperiod of 14 days beginning with—(i) the day on which the parties settle the dispute, or(ii) the day on which an award is made under 35 section 10 in relation to the dispute.(7B) The works (whether carried out by the adjoining owner or the building owner) are to be carried out—(a) at the building owner’s expense, and(b) in accordance with the description and programme 40agreed by the parties (whether by virtue of a consentnotice or in connection with the settlement of any dispute) or determined in accordance with section 10(in the case of a dispute in relation to which an awardis made under that section).” 45￼7 (1) Thisparagraphapplieswhereadisputearisesorisdeemedtohavearisenin respect of a matter connected with any work to which the 1996 Act relates and the work—(a) is required for Phase One purposes, or
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 22 — Party walls etc369￼(b) relates to a building or structure situated on land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker for the purposes of the nominated undertaker’s undertaking under this Act.(2) In such a case, the 1996 Act has effect as if for section 10 (resolution of disputes) there were substituted— 5“10Resolution of disputes(1) Where a dispute arises or is deemed to have arisen between a building owner and an adjoining owner in respect of any matter connected with any work to which this Act applies, the dispute is tobe settled by a single arbitrator, to be— 10(a) (b)(2) If the (a) (b)(c) (d)agreed on by both parties, orin default of agreement, appointed on the application of either party, after notice in writing to the other, by the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.arbitrator— 15 refuses to act;neglects to act for a period of ten days beginning with the dayon which either party serves a request on the arbitrator;dies before the dispute is settled; orbecomes or deems himself or herself incapable of acting, 20subsection (1) applies again.(3) The arbitrator must settle by award any matter—(a) which is connected with any work to which this Act relates,and(b) which is in dispute between the building owner and the 25 adjoining owner.(4) An award may determine—(a) the right to execute any work;(b) the time and manner of executing any work; and(c) any other matter arising out of or incidental to the dispute 30 including the costs of making the award.(5) But, unless otherwise agreed between the building owner and the adjoining owner, any period appointed by the award for executingany work does not begin to run until after the end of the period prescribed by this Act for service of the notice in respect of which the 35 dispute arises or is deemed to have arisen.(6) The reasonable costs incurred in—(a) making or obtaining an award under this section,(b) reasonable inspections of work to which the award relates,and 40(c) any other matter arising out of the dispute,are to be paid by such of the parties as the arbitrator determines.(7) Where the arbitrator makes an award, the arbitrator must serve it forthwith on the parties.(8) The award is conclusive and must not except as provided by this 45 section be questioned in any court.
￼￼￼370High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 22 — Party walls etc(9) Either of the parties to the dispute may appeal to the county court against the award within the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the award is served on the party making the appeal.(10) On such an appeal, the county court may—(a) rescind the award or modify it in such manner as the court 5thinks fit; and(b) make such order as to costs as the court thinks fit.”￼8 (1)(3) Where the 1996 Act has effect as mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)—(a) section 7(5) has effect as if the words “(or surveyors acting on their behalf)” were omitted, 10(b) section 8(5) has effect as if the reference to a surveyor appointed or selected under section 10 were to an arbitrator agreed or appointed under section 10 (as modified by sub-paragraph (2)),(c) section 8(6) has effect as if it provided for the arbitrator to give noticeof its intention to enter land or premises, and 15(d) section 12(3)(b) has effect as if the reference to the surveyor or surveyors were to the arbitrator.Where, by virtue of paragraph 6, work to which a notice under section 6(5)of the 1996 Act relates are carried out by an adjoining owner, sections 13 and14 of that Act have effect subject to the following modifications. 20(2) Section13(1)haseffectasifitenabledtheadjoiningowner,withintheperiod of two months beginning with the day of the completion of the work, to serve on the building owner an account in writing showing particulars and expenses of the work.(3) Section 13(2) has effect as if it enabled the building owner to serve on the 25 adjoining owner a notice objecting to the account served under section 13(1)(as modified by sub-paragraph (2)).(4) Section 14 has effect as if—(a) for subsection (1) there were substituted—“(1) All expenses to be defrayed by a building owner in 30 accordance with an account served under section 13 shall bepaid by the building owner.”, and(b) subsection (2) were omitted.SCHEDULE 23 Section 33 STREET WORKSWorks in or near highways1 (1) The following enactments (which control obstructions of the highway in connection with works relating to buildings) do not apply to anything erected, placed or retained in, upon or over a highway for the purposes of orin connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act— 40(a) section 15(1) of the Greater London Council (General Powers) Act 1970 (c. lxxvi), and(b) section 169(1) of the Highways Act 1980.35
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 23 — Street works371￼(2) Section141oftheHighwaysAct1980(c.66)(restrictiononplantingtreesor shrubs in or near carriageway) does not apply to any tree or shrub planted for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.(3) Section 167 of the Highways Act 1980 (powers relating to retaining walls 5 near streets) does not apply to any length of a retaining wall erected on landheld by the Secretary of State or nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.(4) Nothing in section 8(2) to (5) of the Greater London Council (General 10 Powers) Act 1986 (c. iv) (power of borough councils in relation to retainingwalls supporting the carriageway or footway of certain highways) applieswith respect to any retaining wall erected in exercise of the powers conferredby this Act.(5) The provisions of this paragraph apply in relation to a highway for which 15 the Secretary of State is the highway authority only if the Secretary of State consents (and consent may be subject to conditions).Street works2 (1)The powers conferred by section 56(1) and (1A) of the New Roads and StreetWorks Act 1991 (powers to give directions as to the timing of proposed and 20 subsisting street works) do not apply in relation to works proposed to be, orbeing, carried out under the powers conferred by this Act.(2) Section56AofthatAct(powertogivedirectionsastoplacingofapparatus)does not apply in relation to the placing of apparatus in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act. 25(3) Norestrictionundersection58(1)ofthatAct(powertoimposerestrictionon execution of street works following completion of substantial road works) has effect in relation to works carried out under the powers conferred by this Act.(4) Section 61(1) of that Act (under which the consent of the street authority is 30 required for the placing of apparatus in a protected street) does not apply tothe placing of apparatus in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.(5) Section 62(2) of that Act (power following designation of protected street to require removal or repositioning of apparatus already placed in the street)does not apply in relation to apparatus placed in exercise of the powers 35 conferred by this Act.(6) Section 62(4) of that Act (power when designation as protected street commences or ceases to give directions with respect to works in progress)does not apply in relation to works being carried out under the powers conferred by this Act. 40(7) Section 63(1) of that Act (under which Schedule 4 to that Act has effect for requiring the settlement of a plan and section of street works to be executedin a street designated by the street authority as having special engineering difficulties) does not apply in relation to works to be executed under the powers conferred by this Act. 45
￼￼￼372High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 23 — Street works￼(8) The power conferred by section 73A(1) of that Act (power to require undertaker to re-surface street) may not be exercised in relation to an undertaker who is within subsection (2) of that section because of—(a) having given a notice in respect of works proposed to be carried outunder the powers conferred by this Act, or 5(b) executing, or having executed, works under those powers.(9) Nothing in section 74A of that Act (power to make regulations requiring payment of charges for street works), or in regulations made under it, applies in relation to the execution of works under the powers conferred bythis Act. 10(10) Nocontributionispayableundersection78A(1)(b)ofthatAct(contributions by other undertakers to costs incurred in executing works specified in a re- surfacing notice) because of the execution of works under the powers conferred by this Act.(11) Schedule 3A to that Act (restriction on works following substantial street 15 works) does not apply where a notice under section 54 (advance notice of certain works) or 55 (notice of starting date of works) of that Act is in respectof works to be executed under the powers conferred by this Act.(12) No notice under paragraph 2(1)(d) of that Schedule (power by notice to require notification of works which an undertaker proposes to carry out in a 20 part of a highway to which a proposed restriction applies) has effect to require the notification of works proposed to be carried out under the powers conferred by this Act.(13) No directions under paragraph 3 of that Schedule (directions as to the dateon which undertakers may begin to execute proposed works) may be issued 25 to the nominated undertaker.(14) Paragraph 3(4) of that Schedule (under which it is an offence for an undertaker to execute street works before the completion of certain otherstreet works) does not apply in relation to the execution of works under the powers conferred by this Act. 30(15) Paragraph 5(1) of that Schedule (effect of direction under paragraph 4 restricting further works) does not apply in relation to the execution of works under the powers conferred by this Act.(16) The provisions of this paragraph apply in relation to a street for which the Secretary of State is the street authority only if the Secretary of State consents 35 (and consent may be subject to conditions).Permit schemes3 (1) Nothing in Part 3 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (permit schemes), orin any permit scheme or permit regulations under that Part, applies in relation to the carrying out of works under the powers conferred by this Act. 40(2) Thisparagraphappliesinrelationto—(a) a permit scheme under Part 3 of the 2004 Act in respect of a street forwhich the Secretary of State is the highway authority, or(b) a permit scheme prepared by the Secretary of State under section33(4) of the 2004 Act, 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 23 — Street works373￼Lorry ban orders51 (1)In this Schedule “lorry ban order” means—(a) the Greater London (Restriction of Goods Vehicles) Traffic Order 1985, oronly if the Secretary of State consents (and consent may be subject to conditions).SCHEDULE 24 Section 34 LORRIES(b) any other order made at any time under section 1 or 6 of the RoadTraffic Regulation Act 1984 which to any extent imposes— 10(i) a prohibition or restriction on the use of heavy commercial vehicles, or any class of such vehicles, in an area, zone or place, or on a road, specified in the order, or(ii) a requirement that heavy commercial vehicles, or any class ofsuch vehicles, use a specified through route. 15(2) Thereferenceinsub-paragraph(1)(b)(i)toaprohibitionorrestrictiononthe use of heavy commercial vehicles on a road does not include a prohibition or restriction on their use on part of the width of a road.(3) It is immaterial for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b) whether the prohibition, restriction or requirement is subject to exceptions. 20(4) ThisparagraphappliesinrelationtoalorrybanordermadebytheSecretary of State only if the Secretary of State consents (and consent may be subject to conditions).Required provision in lorry ban orders2 (1) If a lorry ban order referred to in paragraph 1(1)(b) does not contain the 25required provision, it is to be treated as if it did.(2) The required provision is provision to the effect that—(a) a person proposing to use heavy commercial vehicles in connectionwith authorised works in a way which would otherwise constitute abreach of the prohibition, restriction or requirement referred to in 30 paragraph 1(1)(b) may apply for the issue of a permit in respect ofthat use, and(b) the use authorised by such a permit does not constitute a breach of the prohibition, restriction or requirement.Issue of emergency permits 353 (1) This paragraph applies where a person proposes to undertake a journey before the end of the next complete eight working days, being a journey—(a) proposed to be undertaken in connection with the carrying out of authorised works, and(b) for which a permit under a lorry ban order is required if the 40 prohibition, restriction or requirement is not to be breached.
￼￼￼374High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 24 — Lorries￼4 (1)(2) Thepersonmayapplyforapermitunderthelorrybanorderforthejourney by giving the details mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) by telephone or by electronic means to the authority responsible for dealing with permits under the order.(3) The details referred to above are— 5(a) the identity of the applicant,(b) how the applicant may be contacted by telephone or by electronic means,(c) the registration number of the vehicle to which the application relates, 10(d) the authorised works in connection with which the journey is to be undertaken,(e) whether any approved arrangements are relevant to the application and, if so, what they are,(f) the date when the journey is proposed to be undertaken, and 15(g) in the case of an order made otherwise than by the Secretary of State, whether it is proposed to stop in the relevant area for delivery or collection purposes and, if so, the place or places and time or times at which it is proposed to do so, and(h) in the case of an order made by the Secretary of State, such details of 20 the place or places and time or times at which it is proposed to stopfor delivery or collection purposes as may be set out in conditions attaching to consent given under paragraph 1(5).(4) In sub-paragraph (3)(g) “relevant area” means—(a) Greater London, if the area, zone, place or road specified in the order 25 is in Greater London, and(b) the area of the traffic authority, in any other case.An authority responsible for dealing with permits under a lorry ban ordermust make arrangements enabling applications under paragraph 3 to bemade at any time. 30(2) Onceanapplicationforapermithasbeenmadeunderparagraph3,then,for the purpose of any relevant journey, the application is to be treated as granted subject to such conditions as the Secretary of State may by order specify.(3) A journey is a relevant journey for the purposes of sub-paragraph (2) if it is 35 begun before the authority to which the application is made has communicated its decision on the application to the applicant by the means specified by the application under paragraph 3(3)(b).(4) The power to make an order under sub-paragraph (2) includes—(a) power to make different provision for different cases, and 40(b) power to make an order varying or revoking any order previouslymade under that provision.Grant of applications for permit5 (1) Thisparagraphapplieswhereanapplicationfortheissueofapermitundera lorry ban order— 45(a) is made under paragraph 3, or
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 24 — Lorries375￼(b) is otherwise expressed to be made in connection with the carrying out of authorised works.(2) The application must be granted if the issue of a permit is reasonably required—(a) for the purpose of enabling authorised works to be carried out in a 5 timely and efficient manner, or(b) for the purpose of enabling authorised works to be carried out in accordance with approved arrangements.(3) Iftheapplicationisgranted,noconditionmaybeimposedwhichislikelyto obstruct the carrying out of authorised works— 10(a) in a timely and efficient manner, or(b) in accordance with approved arrangements.(4) An applicant aggrieved by a decision under sub-paragraph (2) or (3) may appeal to the Secretary of State by giving notice of the appeal to—(a) the Secretary of State, and 15(b) the authority whose decision is appealed against,within 28 days of notification of the decision.(5) On an appeal under sub-paragraph (4), the Secretary of State may allow or dismiss the appeal or vary the decision of the authority whose decision is appealed against. 20(6) If, on an appeal under sub-paragraph (4) against a decision under sub- paragraph (3), the Secretary of State varies the decision, the variation has effect from and including the date on which the appeal was constituted or such later date as the Secretary of State may specify.(7) The applicant may not challenge a decision under sub-paragraph (3) 25 otherwise than by an appeal under sub-paragraph (4).Supplementary interpretation6 (1) In this Schedule—“approved arrangements” means arrangements approved for the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 16; 30“authorised works” means works authorised by this Act;“electronic means” includes e-mail and the internet;“heavy commercial vehicle” has the same meaning as in the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (see section 138 of that Act);“traffic authority” has the same meaning as in the Road Traffic 35 Regulation Act 1984 (see section 121A of that Act);“working day” means any day which is not a Saturday or Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday in England and Wales under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.(2) In this Schedule references to the issuing of a permit include the giving of 40 any consent.
￼￼￼376Control of noise on construction sitesHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 25 — NoiseSCHEDULE 25 Section 35 NOISE￼1 (1) In the Control of Pollution Act 1974, sections 60 (control of noise on construction sites) and 61 (prior consent for work on construction sites) each 5 have effect, in relation to works carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, as if—(a) in subsection (7) (appeal against notice or against failure to give consent or the giving of qualified consent), for “a magistrates’ court”there were substituted “the Secretary of State”, and 10(b) after that subsection there were inserted—“(7A) If within seven days of the giving of notice of appeal under subsection (7) of this section the appellant and the local authority so agree, the appeal shall, instead of being determined by the Secretary of State, be referred to 15 arbitration.”(2) The Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Secretary of State for Transport acting jointly may, in relation to appealswhich (by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)) are referred to arbitration under section 60(7A) or 61(7A) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974, by regulations 20 make any such provision as may be made by regulations under section 70 ofthat Act in relation to appeals under Part 3 of that Act to the Secretary of State.(3) Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such regulations is 25 subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.Defences to proceedings relating to statutory nuisance2 In proceedings for an offence under section 80(4) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (offence of contravening abatement notice) in respect of 30 a statutory nuisance falling within section 79(1)(g) or (ga) of that Act wherethe offence consists in contravening requirements imposed by virtue of section 80(1)(a) or (b) of that Act, it is a defence to show that the nuisance—(a) is a consequence of—(i) the construction or maintenance of the works authorised by 35 this Act, or(ii) the operation of Phase One of High Speed 2, and(b) cannot reasonably be avoided.3 (1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by 40 statutory nuisance) in relation to—(a) a statutory nuisance falling within section 79(1)(g) of that Act (noise emitted from premises), or(b) a statutory nuisance falling within section 79(1)(ga) of that Act (noise emitted by vehicle, machinery or equipment in a street), 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 25 — Noise377￼4no order may be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section 82(2) of that Act if the defendant shows that sub-paragraph (2) or (3) applies.(2) This sub-paragraph applies if the nuisance—(a) relates to premises or, as the case may be, to a vehicle, machinery orequipment, used by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of or 5 in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Actwith respect to works, and(b) is attributable to the carrying out of works which are being carriedout in accordance with a notice served under section 60, or a consentgiven under section 61 or 65, of the Control of Pollution Act 1974. 10(3) This sub-paragraph applies if the nuisance—(a) is a consequence of—(i) the construction or maintenance of the works authorised by this Act, or(ii) the operation of Phase One of High Speed 2, and 15(b) cannot reasonably be avoided.The following provisions of the Control of Pollution Act 1974—(a) section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedingsunder section 82 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990), and 20(b) section 65(8) (corresponding provision in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded),do not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises or, as the casemay be, of a vehicle, machinery or equipment by the nominated undertakerfor the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers 25 conferred by this Act with respect to works.SCHEDULE 26 Section 36 LOCAL ACTSLondon Squares Preservation Act 1931 (c. xciii)1 (1) Nothing in section 3 of the London Squares Preservation Act 1931 30 (protection of squares) has effect in relation to anything done for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred bythis Act with respect to works.(2) Nothing in any agreement under section 9 of that Act (agreements betweenlocal authority and owner of a protected square) has effect to prohibit, 35 restrict or impose any condition on the exercise of the powers conferred bythis Act with respect to works.London Overground Wires &c. Act 1933 (c. xliv)2 Nothing in the London Overground Wires &c. Act 1933, or in any byelawmade under that Act, extends or applies to any wires or part of a wire 40 erected or placed, proposed to be erected or placed, or for the time being maintained, by the nominated undertaker in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.
￼￼￼378High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 26 — Local Acts￼London Building Acts (Amendment) Act 1939 (c. xcvii)3 (1)The following provisions of the London Building Acts (Amendment) Act1939 do not apply to anything held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act— 5(a) Part 3 (construction of buildings and structures generally),(b) Part 4 (construction of special and temporary buildings andstructures), and(c) Part 5 (means of escape in case of fire).(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to a building which is a house 10 or a hotel.(3) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to a building which is used as offices or showrooms unless it forms part of a railway station or other railway facility.(4) The reference in sub-paragraph (3) to a “railway facility” includes a 15 maintenance depot, electrical supply facility or stabling facility used for the purposes of a railway.West Midlands County Council Act 1980 (c. xi)4 (1)Section 11 of the West Midlands County Council Act 1980 (floodlighting)does not apply to floodlighting provided for the purposes of or in 20 connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respectto works.(2) Section 15 of that Act (dust) does not apply to building operations carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.(3) Section 16 of that Act (noise from air-powered tools and compressors) does 25 not apply to equipment used for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.(4) Section 21 of that Act (powers of entry for Prevention of Damage by PestsAct 1949) does not apply in relation to any land held by the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for 30 the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.(5) Section46ofthatAct(buildingplans:accessforfirebrigade)doesnotapplyto plans relating to a building held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker forthe purposes of its undertaking under this Act. 35(6) Part7ofthatAct(storageofflammablematerials)doesnotapplyinrelation to a stack on land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.(7) Section 84 of that Act (works erected etc over watercourses) does not apply 40 to a work (as defined in that section) belonging to the Secretary of State orthe nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 26 — Local ActsStaffordshire Act 1983 (c. xviii)379￼5 (1)Section 7 of the Staffordshire Act 1983 (plans for new streets) does not apply to any work carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.(2) Section10(1)(b)ofthatAct(ornamentalormownland)doesnotapplytotheuse of a vehicle which is reasonably necessary— 5(a) for the purposes of, or in connection with, the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works, or(b) for the purposes of the nominated undertaker’s undertaking under this Act.(3) Section 12 of that Act (dust) does not apply to building operations carried 10 out in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.(4) Section 16 of that Act (powers of entry for Prevention of Damage by PestsAct 1949) does not apply in relation to any land held by the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker forthe purposes of its undertaking under this Act. 15(5) Section26ofthatAct(buildingplans:accessforfirebrigade)doesnotapply to plans relating to a building held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker and used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act.(6) Part 7 of that Act (storage of flammable materials) does not apply in relation 20 to a stack on land held by the Secretary of State or the nominated undertakerand used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposesof its undertaking under this Act.Oxfordshire Act 1985 (c. xxxiv)6 (1) Section 5(2)(a) of the Oxfordshire Act 1985 (grass verges and open spaces) 25 does not apply to the use of a vehicle, or the leaving of a vehicle, which is reasonably necessary—(a) for the purposes of, or in connection with, the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works, or(b) for the purposes of the nominated undertaker’s undertaking under 30 this Act.(2) Section10ofthatAct(culvertingofditches)doesnotapplytoanythingdone in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act with respect to works.Greater London Council (General Powers) Act 1986 (c. iv)7 The following provisions of the Greater London Council (General Powers) 35 Act 1986 do not apply to anything done in exercise of the powers conferredby this Act with respect to works—(a) section 5(1) (consent of borough council required for demolition of works under a street),(b) section 6(1) (consent of borough council required for works 40 preventing access to premises under a street), and(c) section 7(1) (consent of borough council required for infilling in premises under a street).
￼￼￼380High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 27 — Application of other railway legislation etcSCHEDULE 27 Section 40 APPLICATION OF OTHER RAILWAY LEGISLATION ETC￼Highway (Railway Crossings) Act 1839 (c. 45)1 The Highway (Railway Crossings) Act 1839 does not apply to a railway authorised by this Act. 5Railway Regulation Act 1840 (c. 97)2 (1) InitsapplicationtoPhaseOneofHighSpeed2,oratrainallorpartofwhose journey is on Phase One of High Speed 2, section 16 of the Railway Regulation Act 1840 (obstruction of officers of railway company or trespassupon railway) has effect as if— 10(a) the maximum fine which may be imposed on summary conviction of the offence for which it provides were level 3 on the standard scale (instead of level 1), and(b) the court had, as an alternative to imposing a fine, the power toaward imprisonment for a period not exceeding 51 weeks (in the case 15 of an offence committed in England and Wales) or 12 months (in thecase of an offence committed in Scotland).(2) In relation to an offence committed in England and Wales before the commencement of section 281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, the reference in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to 51 weeks is to be read as a reference to 20 one month.Railway Regulation Act 1842 (c. 55)3 Section 9 of the Railway Regulation Act 1842 does not apply to a railway authorised by this Act.Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 (c. 20) 254 (1) The following provisions only of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 are incorporated with this Act, in so far as they are applicable for the purposes of this Act and not inconsistent with its provisions—sections 2 to 4, 6, 16, 18, 21, 24, 30, 31, 37 and 38 (so far as relating to section 31), 46, 67 to 70, 73, 86, 97, 103, 105, 140, 142, 144, 145 and 162 30 to 164.(2) In their application by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)—(a) section 2 has effect with the substitution for “so incorporated asaforesaid” of “incorporated”;(b) section 6 has effect with the omission of “and to take lands for that 35 purpose”, “taken or” and “for the value of the lands so taken or used,and”;(c) sections 18 and 21 do not apply in any case where the relations between the nominated undertaker and any other person are regulated by sections 84 and 85 of the New Roads and Street Works 40 Act 1991 or Part 2 of Schedule 31 to this Act (protective provisions relating to utility undertakers);(d) section 46 has effect with the omission of the words from “of the height” to “in that behalf provided”;
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 27 — Application of other railway legislation etc381￼(e) section 68 has effect with the omission of the words from “Such and” to “formation thereof” and from “together with all necessary gates” to “all necessary stiles”.Railways Clauses Act 1863 (c. 92)5 (1) Sections 4 and 12 of the Railways Clauses Act 1863 (and section 3 of that Act 5 so far as relating to those sections) are incorporated with this Act, in so faras applicable for the purposes of this Act and not inconsistent with its provisions.(2) Initsapplicationbyvirtueofsub-paragraph(1),section4haseffectwiththe omission of— 10(a) the words “and subject to the limitations contained in sections eleven, twelve, and fifteen of those Acts respectively,”, and(b) the words from “Provided that nothing” to the end.Regulation of Railways Act 1889 (c. 57)6 In its application to Phase One of High Speed 2, or a train all or part of whose 15 journey is on Phase One of High Speed 2, section 5 of the Regulation of Railways Act 1889 has effect as follows—(a) section 5(1) (failure to produce ticket, pay fare or give name and address) has effect as if the maximum fine which may be imposed on summary conviction of the offence for which it provides were level 2 20 on the standard scale (instead of level 1);(b) section 5(2) (power to arrest passenger who fails to produce ticket and refuses to give name and address) has effect as if after “refuses” there were inserted “or fails”;(c) section 5(3) (travel with intent to avoid payment of fare) has effect as 25 if the maximum fine which may be imposed on summary convictionof the offence for which it provides were level 3 on the standard scale (instead of level 2).Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns) Act 1911 (c. 34)7 For the purposes of the Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns) Act 30 1911, a person is not a railway company by virtue of working a railway authorised by this Act.British Transport Commission Act 1949 (c xxix)8 (1) Section 55 of the British Transport Commission Act 1949 (penalty for trespass on railways etc) also applies in relation to any railway, siding, 35 tunnel, railway embankment, cutting or similar work constructed in exerciseof the powers conferred by this Act.(2) Section 56 of that Act (penalty for stone throwing etc on railways) also applies in relation to any railway or siding constructed in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act. 40North Pole Depot9 (1) Clause 12 of the 1987 North Pole Depot undertaking (restriction on the operation of diesel locomotives on the site) does not apply in relation to—
￼￼￼382High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 27 — Application of other railway legislation etc(a) the western part of the site, or(b) the use of any railway or siding on any other part of the site for thepurposes of access to, or stabling in connection with, a depot on the western part of the site.￼(2) For the purposes of this paragraph— 5“the 1987 North Pole Depot undertaking” means the undertaking of the British Railways Board to the London Borough of Ealing and the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham in relation to a proposed North Pole Depot, dated 30 March 1987;“the site” has the meaning given by clause 1 of the undertaking; 10 “the western part of the site” means any part of the site which isDirections as to results to be achieved151 (1)This paragraph applies where a difference is referred under section 41(3) to arbitration.situated on land west of Scrubs Lane.SCHEDULE 28 Section 41(4) ARBITRATION BETWEEN RAILWAY OPERATORS(2) The parties must notify the Secretary of State of the referral without delay after the commencement of the arbitral proceedings.(3) The Secretary of State may, on request or otherwise, direct the arbitrator as 20 to results that are to be achieved by the agreement for which terms are to be determined by the arbitration.(4) A direction under this paragraph may be made even though the making ofthe direction affects the outcome of proceedings to which the Secretary ofState, or a body in which the Secretary of State has an interest, is a party. 25(5) Arequestforadirectionunderthisparagraphmaybemadebythearbitrator (as well as by a party).(6) For the purpose of determining whether or not the arbitrator has to complywith a direction under this paragraph, the rule is that the arbitrator must comply with the direction in determining terms of the agreement if the 30 direction—(a) is relevant to the determination of those terms, and(b) is given to the arbitrator before the award determining those terms ismade.(7) For the purpose of determining what the arbitrator has to do to comply with 35 a direction under this paragraph, the rule is that the arbitrator must carry outthe function of determining terms of the agreement so as to secure, so far asis reasonably practicable, that the results concerned are achieved by the agreement.Directions as to consolidation and grouping of proceedings 402 (1) The Secretary of State may, on request or otherwise, direct—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 28 — Arbitration between railway operators383￼(a) that a group of proceedings is to be consolidated, or(b) that concurrent hearings are to be held in a group of proceedings.(2) Insub-paragraph(1)“groupofproceedings”meansagroupconsistingof—(a) section 41(3) proceedings, and(b) any one or more of the following— 5(i) other section 41(3) proceedings,(ii) arbitral proceedings related to the proceedings mentioned in paragraph (a), and(iii) arbitral proceedings related to section 41(3) proceedings thatare to be consolidated with the proceedings mentioned in 10 paragraph (a).(3) Arequestforadirectionunderthisparagraphmaybemadebythearbitrator or any of the arbitrators (as well as by a party).(4) A direction under this paragraph must specify the terms on which the proceedings are to be consolidated or on which concurrent hearings are to 15 be held.(5) Where a direction under this paragraph provides for the consolidation of proceedings that do not all have the same arbitrator, the terms that may be specified in the direction include (in particular)—(a) terms specifying the person who is to be the arbitrator in the 20 consolidated proceedings;(b) terms under which that person is to be determined.(6) For the purposes of this section—(a) “section 41(3) proceedings” means proceedings on arbitration of a difference referred under section 41(3), and 25(b) arbitral proceedings are “related” to section 41(3) proceedings if—(i) the arbitral proceedings are not section 41(3) proceedings,(ii) at least one of the parties to the arbitral proceedings is also a party to the section 41(3) proceedings, and(iii) the Secretary of State considers that the subject-matter of the 30 arbitral proceedings is connected with the subject-matter ofthe section 41(3) proceedings.SCHEDULE 29 Section 44 TRANSFER SCHEMES: FURTHER PROVISIONProperty, rights and liabilities1 (1) The property, rights and liabilities that may be the subject of a transfer scheme include in particular—(a) rights and liabilities relating to contracts of employment;(b) property, rights and liabilities that would not otherwise be capable35of being transferred or assigned by the transferor; 40(c) property acquired after the making of the scheme and rights and liabilities arising after the making of the scheme;(d) rights and liabilities under an enactment.
￼￼￼384High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provisionA transfer scheme may—(a) create rights or interests in relation to property for whose transfer thescheme provides or property retained by the transferor;(b) create rights and liabilities as between the transferor and a transfereeor as between different transferees. 5A transfer scheme may contain provision about enforcement, by or against any one or more of the transferor and the transferee or transferees, of a right or liability for whose transfer or creation the scheme provides.A transfer scheme may define the property, rights and liabilities to be transferred or property to be retained by the transferor— 10(a) by specifying it or them;(b) by describing it or them.Adescriptionofproperty,rightsorliabilitiesmaybeframedinparticular—(a) by reference to the transferor’s undertaking;(b) by reference to a specified part of that undertaking. 15The power under section 44 to make a scheme for the transfer of any property from one person (A) to another (B) may be exercised instead so as to make a scheme for the creation by A in favour of B of an interest in or right in relation to the property.￼2(2)(3) (4)(5)Transfer of employees and continuity of employment 203 (1)This paragraph applies where rights, powers, duties and liabilities relating to a person’s contract of employment are transferred in accordance with a transfer scheme.4 (1)(a) the person is not to be regarded for the purposes of Part 11 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (redundancy) as having been dismissed by virtue of the transfer, and(b) the person’s period of employment with the transferor counts, forthe purposes of that Act, as a period of employment with the 30 transferee.This paragraph applies where—(a) a transfer scheme provides for the transfer of rights, powers, dutiesand liabilities relating to a person’s contract of employment, but(b) before the transfer takes effect, the person informs the transferor or 35transferee that the person objects to the transfer.(2) Thetransferdoesnotbreakthecontinuityoftheperson’semployment,and accordingly— 25(2) Those rights, powers, duties and liabilities are not transferred to the transferee.(3) The person’s contract of employment is terminated immediately before theday on which the transfer would have occurred. 40(4) Thepersonisnot,foranypurpose,toberegardedashavingbeendismissed.(5) Nothinginthisparagraphaffectstheperson’srighttoterminatethecontract of employment if, apart from the change of employer, a substantial change is made to the person’s detriment in his or her working conditions.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision385￼5 (1) If a transfer scheme provides for the transfer of rights, powers, duties and liabilities relating to a person’s contract of employment, it may include provision with respect to the person’s eligibility to become a member of a pension scheme by virtue of employment with the transferee.6(2) The transfer scheme may include provision with respect to rights of, or 5 rights or liabilities in respect of, the person under—(a) a pension scheme of which the person may become a member by virtue of employment with the transferee, or(b) a pension scheme of which the person is a member by virtue of employment immediately before the transfer. 10Where a person holds employment in the civil service of the State on terms which do not constitute a contract of employment—(a) the person is to be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as employed under a contract of employment,(b) the terms of the employment in the civil service of the State are to be 15 treated for those purposes as the terms of that contract, and(c) the reference in paragraph 4 to dismissal is to be read as a reference to termination of the employment in the civil service of the State.Provision for contraventions etc to be treated as not occurring7 (1)(2)8 (1) (2)A transfer scheme may provide for a transfer to take effect as if there were 20 no contravention or liability, or interference with any interest or right, thatthere would otherwise be as a result of a provision which has effect (whetherunder an enactment or agreement or otherwise) in relation to—(a) the terms on which the transferor is entitled to the property or rightfor whose transfer the scheme provides, or 25(b) the terms on which the transferor is subject to the liability for whose transfer the scheme provides.A transfer scheme may provide for the creation of an interest in or right in relation to property to take effect as if there were no contravention or liability, or interference with any interest or right, that there would 30 otherwise be as a result of a provision which has effect (whether under an enactment or agreement or otherwise) in relation to—(a) the terms on which the transferor is entitled to the property, or(b) the terms on which a subsidiary of the transferor is entitled or subjectto anything immediately before the creation of the interest or right 35 takes effect.Thisparagraphapplieswhereatransferschemeprovidesforthetransferof shares in a subsidiary of the transferor.The scheme may provide for the transfer to take effect as if there were no contravention or liability, or interference with any right or interest, that 40 there would otherwise be as a result of a provision which has effect (whetherunder an enactment or agreement or otherwise) in relation to the terms onwhich the subsidiary is entitled or subject to anything immediately beforethe transfer takes effect.
￼￼￼386High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision￼Power to modify interests, rights and liabilities of third parties9 (1) (2) 10 (1)(2)A transfer scheme may modify interests, rights or liabilities of third parties in relation to anything to which the scheme relates.In sub-paragraph (1), “third party”, in relation to a scheme, means a personother than the transferor or a transferee. 5Where a person would (apart from this paragraph) have a qualifying entitlement in consequence of—(a) property, rights or liabilities having been, or being likely to be, transferred under a transfer scheme,(b) interests, rights or liabilities having been, or being likely to be, 10 created under a transfer scheme, or(c) anything else having been done, or being likely to be done, by or under a transfer scheme,that entitlement is enforceable, in consequence of the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), only to the extent specified in the 15 scheme.In this paragraph, “qualifying entitlement”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means an entitlement—(a) to terminate, modify, acquire or claim an interest or right to whichthe transferor, or a subsidiary of the transferor, is entitled or subject, 20 or(b) to treat an interest or right to which the transferor, or a subsidiary of the transferor, is entitled or subject as modified or terminated.Obligations to enter into agreements or execute instruments11 (1)A transfer scheme may contain provision for imposing, on the transferor or 25 a transferee, obligations—(a) to enter into agreements with persons specified in the scheme, or(b) to execute instruments in favour of persons specified in the scheme.(2) Any person may be specified by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)(a) or (b) (including the transferor or a transferee). 30(3) Where a scheme contains provision for imposing an obligation of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)—(a) the scheme must specify or describe the agreement or instrument to which the obligation relates, and(b) the obligation may be enforced in any authorised way by the 35 person—(i) with whom the agreement is to be entered into, or(ii) in favour of whom the instrument is to be executed.(4) In sub-paragraph (3)(b), “enforced in any authorised way” means enforced— 40(a) in civil proceedings for an injunction,(b) in civil proceedings for any other appropriate remedy or relief, or(c) in any other way authorised by the scheme.(5) The scheme may provide that sub-paragraph (4)(a) or (b)—(a) does not apply in relation to the obligation, or 45
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision387￼(b) applies in relation to the obligation subject to restrictions imposed by the scheme.Supplementary provisions of schemes12 (1) A transfer scheme may include consequential, supplementary, incidental,and transitional provision. 5(2) Thatincludes,inparticular,provision—(a) saving the effect of things done by or in relation to the transferor,(b) for a transferee to be treated as the same person in law as thetransferor,(c) for things done by or in relation to the transferor to be treated as done 10by or in relation to a transferee,(d) for things (including legal proceedings) being done by or in relation to the transferor to be continued by or in relation to a transferee, and(e) for references in a document (other than in an enactment) to thetransferor, or to an employee or office-holder of the transferor, to 15 have effect with modifications specified in the scheme.Effect of scheme13 (1) At the time appointed for the purpose by a transfer scheme, property, rightsand liabilities for whose transfer the scheme provides are transferred in accordance with the scheme. 20(2) A scheme may appoint different times for the transfer of different things.(3) Referencesinthisparagraphtothetransferofproperty,rightsandliabilities include references to the creation of interests, rights or liabilities under paragraph 1 or 2 (and “transferred”, in relation to property, rights or liabilities, is to be read accordingly). 25Modification of scheme by agreement14 (1)Where the transferor, and the transferee or transferees, under a transfer scheme so agree, the scheme is to be treated for all purposes as having been made with such modifications as may be agreed.(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of an agreement relating to 30 rights and liabilities under a contract of employment unless the employee isa party to the agreement.(3) Sub-paragraph(1)doesnotapplyinthecaseofanagreementthatadverselyaffects the property or rights of a person other than the transferor or a transferee unless that person is a party to the agreement. 35(4) An agreement under sub-paragraph (1) may make—(a) any provision that could have been contained in the scheme, and(b) consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision inconnection with giving effect to any such provision.(5) Provision under sub-paragraph (4) may be made so as to have effect from 40 when the scheme was made (or any later time).
￼￼￼388Provision of information to person making schemeHigh Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision￼15 (1)Where the Secretary of State proposes to make a transfer scheme, the Secretary of State may direct—(a) a proposed transferor,(b) a proposed transferee, or 5(c) High Speed Two (HS2) Limited,to provide the Secretary of State with such information as the Secretary of State considers necessary to enable the scheme to be made.(2) A direction under sub-paragraph (1) must specify the period (of not lessthan 28 days beginning with the day when the direction is given) within 10 which the information is to be provided.(3) Ifapersonfailstocomplywiththedirection,theSecretaryofStatemaygive the person a notice requiring the person—(a) to produce to the Secretary of State, at a time and place specified inthe notice, any documents which are specified or described in the 15 notice and are in the person’s custody or control, or(b) to provide to the Secretary of State, at a time and place and in the form and manner specified in the notice, such information as may be specified or described in the notice.(4) No person may be required under sub-paragraph (3)— 20(a) to produce a document which the person could not be compelled toproduce in civil proceedings in the High Court, or(b) to provide information which the person could not be compelled to give in evidence in such proceedings.(5) If a person fails to comply with a notice under sub-paragraph (3), the High 25 Court may, on the application of the Secretary of State, make such order asthe court thinks fit for requiring the failure to be made good.(6) Anyorderundersub-paragraph(5)mayincludeprovisionrequiringallthecosts and expenses of and incidental to the application to be borne by one ormore of— 30(a) the person in default, and(b) any officers of a body corporate or other association who areresponsible for its default.(7) Inthisparagraph,areferencetoproducingadocumentincludesareferenceto producing a legible and intelligible copy of information recorded 35 otherwise than in legible form.Agreements relating to schemes16 The Secretary of State may by agreement fetter the exercise of his or her discretion relating to his or her powers under this Schedule.Power to make provision about tax consequences of schemes 40 17 (1) The Treasury may by regulations make provision for varying the way in which arelevant tax has effect from time to time in relation to—(a) any property, rights or liabilities transferred in accordance with a transfer scheme, or
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision389￼(b) anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, or in consequence of, the transfer of any property, rights or liabilities in accordance with a transfer scheme.(2) Theprovisionthatmaybemadeundersub-paragraph(1)(a)includes,inparticular, provision for— 5(a) a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to any property, rights or liabilities transferred;(b) any property, rights or liabilities transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a tax provision;(c) the Secretary of State to be required or permitted, with the consent of the 10 Treasury, to determine, or to specify the method for determining, anythingwhich needs to be determined for the purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to any property, rights or liabilities transferred.(3) Theprovisionthatmaybemadeundersub-paragraph(1)(b)includes,inparticular, provision for— 15(a) a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, or in consequence of, the transfer;(b) anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, or in consequence of, the transfer to have or not to have a specified consequence or to be treated in a 20 specified way;(c) the Secretary of State to be required or permitted, with the consent of the Treasury, to determine, or to specify the method for determining, anythingwhich needs to be determined for the purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, or in 25 consequence of, the transfer.(4) Regulations under this paragraph may make—(a) supplementary, incidental or consequential provision;(b) different provision for different purposes.(5) In this paragraph— 30(a) “relevant tax” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax,stamp duty, stamp duty land tax or stamp duty reserve tax;(b) “tax provision” means a provision of an enactment about a relevant tax.(6) References in this paragraph to the transfer of property, rights or liabilities, 35 in accordance with a transfer scheme include references to—(a) the creation of interests, rights or liabilities under paragraph 1, 2 or 11, and(b) the modification of interests, rights or liabilities under paragraph 9,(and “transferred”, in relation to property, rights or liabilities, is to be read 40 accordingly).(7) Regulations under this paragraph must be made by statutory instrument; and a statutory instrument containing such regulations is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.Interpretation 4518 (1) In this Schedule—
￼￼￼390High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 29 — Transfer schemes: further provision“enactment”, except in paragraph 17, includes a Scottish enactment (as well as the instruments and provisions specified in the definition in section 63(1));“Scottish enactment” means an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an instrument made under such an Act (or a provision of such an Act or 5 instrument);“subsidiary” has the meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006;“transfer scheme” means a scheme under section 44;“transferee”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means a person who is a 10transferee in respect of property, rights or liabilities for whose transfer the scheme provides (or the person in whose favour any interest or right is created under paragraph 2);“transferor”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means the person for the transfer of whose property, rights or liabilities the scheme provides 15 (or the person by whom any interest or right is created under paragraph 2).￼(2) ReferencesinthisScheduletoarightorentitlementincludereferencestoan entitlement to exercise a right (and references to a right’s arising include references to its becoming exercisable). 20SCHEDULE 30 Section 45 EXTENSION OF PLANNING PERMISSION FOR STATUTORY UNDERTAKERSCase where planning permission extended1 (1) Article 3(10) of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order 1995 (S.I. 1995/418) (which excepts development 25 requiring an environmental assessment from the general planning permission granted by that Order) does not apply to development which—(a) falls within a class of development described in Part 15, 16, 17, 24 or 25 of Schedule 2 to that Order as permitted development, and(b) is covered by an environmental assessment in connection with the 30 High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill.(2) References in sub-paragraph (1) to particular provisions of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order 1995 include references to the corresponding provisions of any order replacing thatOrder. 35Condition of extended planning permission2 (1) Planning permission granted by virtue of paragraph 1 is subject to the condition that development is carried out in accordance with such requirements as the Secretary of State may by notice to the developer specifyfor the purpose of— 40(a) avoiding a breach of an undertaking given by the Secretary of State to the Select Committee of either House of Parliament to which the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill was committed, or
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 30 — Extension of planning permission for statutory undertakers391￼(b) securing that the environmental effects of carrying out the development are not materially different from those envisaged by the statement by virtue of which paragraph 1(b) applies.(2) Thepowerconferredundersub-paragraph(1)isexercisableafter,aswellas before, development is commenced. 5(3) The power conferred under sub-paragraph (1) includes power, exercisable in the same manner, to vary or revoke a notice under that sub-paragraph.(4) Theconditionimposedbysub-paragraph(1)isinadditiontoanycondition to which the planning permission may be subject apart from this paragraph.Controls on proposed development 103 (1)(2) (3)4 (1)Where—(a) it appears to the Secretary of State that a person is proposing to carryout development of a kind mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a), and(b) the Secretary of State is of the opinion that the proposed development is not covered by an environmental assessment in 15 connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill,the Secretary of State may give notice of that opinion to the proposed developer.The power conferred under sub-paragraph (1) includes power, exercisablein the same manner, to withdraw a notice under that sub-paragraph. 20Where a notice under sub-paragraph (1) has been given (and not withdrawn), paragraph 1 is to be treated as not applying to the carrying out of the development by the proposed developer.Where it appears to the Secretary of State that—(a) a person is proposing to carry out development of a kind mentioned 25in paragraph 1(1)(a),(b) the development is covered by an environmental assessment in connection with the High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill, and(c) it is necessary or desirable to do so for the purpose of avoiding a 30 breach of an undertaking given by the Secretary of State to the Select Committee of either House of Parliament to which that Bill was committed,the Secretary of State may by notice to the proposed developer disapply paragraph 1(1) in relation to the carrying out of the development by that 35 person.The power conferred under sub-paragraph (2) includes power, exercisable in the same manner, to revoke a notice under that sub-paragraph.(2)Notices5 (1)A notice under this Schedule must— 40(a) specify the person to whom it is given,(b) specify the development to which it relates,(c) explain the reasons for it, and(d) in the case of a notice under paragraph 3, explain its effect.
￼￼￼392High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 30 — Extension of planning permission for statutory undertakersThe Secretary of State must, when giving a notice under this Schedule, give a copy to the unitary authority or, in a non-unitary area, the district council in whose area the development is or is to be carried out.SCHEDULE 31 Section 46 PROTECTIVE PROVISIONSPART 1 HIGHWAYS AND TRAFFIC￼1 (1) (2)(3)The following provisions of this Part have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the nominated undertaker and the highway authority concerned. 10In this Part—“plans” includes sections and specifications;“property of the highway authority” means any apparatus of thehighway authority affixed to or placed under any highway.Part 3 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 does not apply in 15 relation to any matter which is regulated by this Part.Wherever in this Part provision is made with respect to the approval or consent of the highway authority, that approval or consent must be in writing and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as the highway authority may require, but must not be unreasonably withheld. 20In exercising the powers conferred by this Act in relation to any highway the nominated undertaker must—(a) have regard to the potential disruption of traffic which may be caused, and(b) seek to minimise such disruption so far as is reasonably practicable. 25This paragraph applies to the construction of any tunnel, subway or other structure authorised by this Act under and within 8 metres of the surface of any highway which comprises a carriageway.The nominated undertaker must not, without the consent of the highway authority, carry out works to which this paragraph applies except in 30 accordance with plans submitted to, and approved by, the highway authority.If, within 28 days after such plans have been submitted, the highway authority has not approved or disapproved them, it is deemed to have approved the plans as submitted. 35This paragraph does not apply to street works within the meaning of Part 3 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991.In the construction of any part of the works to which paragraph 4 appliesunder a highway no part of it may, except with the consent of the highway authority, be so constructed as to— 40234 (1) (2)(3) (4)5(2)5
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 1 — Highways and traffic393￼6 (1)78 (1)(a) interfere with the provision of proper means of drainage of the surface of the highway, or(b) be nearer than two metres to the surface of the highway.The provisions of this paragraph have effect in relation to, and in relation tothe construction of, any new bridge, or any extension or alteration of an 5 existing bridge, which carries—(a) any part of the works authorised by this Act over a highway, or(b) a highway over any part of those works.Any such new bridge, or (as the case may be) any bridge so extended or altered, is referred to in this paragraph as “the bridge”. 10(2) Before commencing the construction of, or the carrying out of any work in connection with, the bridge which involves interference with a highway, the nominated undertaker must submit to the highway authority for its approval plans, drawings and particulars (in this paragraph referred to as “plans”) relating to the work, and the bridge must not be constructed and the 15 works must not be carried out except in accordance with the plans submittedto, and approved by, the highway authority.(3) If, within 28 days after the plans have been submitted, the highway authority has not approved or disapproved them, it is to be deemed to have approved the plans as submitted. 20(4) If the bridge carries any part of the works authorised by this Act over any highway—(a) it must be constructed in such manner as to prevent so far as may be reasonably practicable the dripping of water from the bridge, and(b) the highway authority may, at the cost of the nominated undertaker, 25 provide and place such lamps and apparatus as may from time totime be reasonably necessary for efficiently lighting any highwayunder or in the vicinity of the bridge.The nominated undertaker must—(a) secure that so much of the works authorised by this Act as is 30constructed under any highway must be so designed, constructed and maintained as to carry the appropriate loading recommended for highway bridges by the Secretary of State at the time of construction of the works, and(b) indemnify the highway authority against, and make good to the 35 highway authority, the expenses which the highway authority may reasonably incur in the maintenance or repair of any highway, or any tunnels, sewers, drains or apparatus in the highway, by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of this paragraph.Any officer of the highway authority duly appointed for the purpose may at 40 all reasonable times, on giving to the nominated undertaker such notice asmay in the circumstances be reasonable, enter upon and inspect any part ofthe works authorised by this Act which—(a) is in, over or under any highway, or(b) which may affect any highway or any property of the highway 45 authority,during the carrying out of the works.(2) The nominated undertaker must give to such officer all reasonable facilities for such inspection and, if the officer is of the opinion that the construction
￼￼￼3949 (1) (2)(3)1011 (1)(2) (3)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 1 — Highways and traffic￼12of the work is attended with danger to any highway or to any property ofthe highway authority on or under any highway, the nominated undertakermust adopt such measures and precautions as may be reasonably practicable for the purpose of preventing any damage or injury to the highway. 5The nominated undertaker must not alter, disturb or in any way interfere with any property of the highway authority on or under any highway, or the access to that property, without the consent of the highway authority.Any alteration, diversion, replacement or reconstruction of any such property which may be necessary must be made by the highway authority 10 or the nominated undertaker as the highway authority thinks fit, and the expense reasonably incurred by the highway authority in so doing must berepaid to the highway authority by the nominated undertaker.If, within 28 days after a request for consent has been submitted, the highway authority has not given or refused such consent, it is to be deemed 15 to have consented to the request as submitted.The nominated undertaker must not remove any soil or material from any highway except so much as is excavated in the carrying out of the works authorised by this Act.If the highway authority, after giving to the nominated undertaker not less 20 than 28 days’ notice (or, in case of emergency, such notice as is reasonably practicable) of its intention to do so, incurs any additional expense in consequence of the construction of the works authorised by this Act—(a) in the signposting of traffic diversions,(b) in the taking of other measures in relation to those diversions, or 25(c) in the repair of any highway by reason of the diversion of traffic from a road of a higher standard,the nominated undertaker must repay to the highway authority the amount of any such expense reasonably so incurred.Sub-paragraph (3) applies in respect of an amount which, but for that sub- 30 paragraph, would be payable to the highway authority by virtue of sub- paragraph (1) in respect of the repair of any highway.If the highway fell or would have fallen due for repair as part of the maintenance programme of the highway authority at any time within tenyears of the repair being carried out by the nominated undertaker, so as to 35 confer on the highway authority financial benefit (whether by securing the completion of overdue maintenance work for which the highway authorityis liable or by deferment of the time for such work in the ordinary course),the amount payable to the highway authority must be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 40The nominated undertaker must not, except with the consent of the highway authority—(a) deposit any soil or material, or store any plant, in or over a highwayto which the public continues to have access so as to obstruct orrender less safe the use of the highway, 45(b) deposit any soils or materials on any such highway outside a hoarding,(c) erect or retain on or over such a highway any scaffolding or other structure which obstructs the highway unless the structure
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 1 — Highways and traffic395￼1314 (1)comprises screening which has been approved under Schedule 16(planning conditions),but if within 28 days after request for it any such consent is neither given nor refused it is to be deemed to have been given.The nominated undertaker must, if reasonably so required by the highway 5 authority, provide and maintain to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority, during such time as the nominated undertaker may occupy any part of a highway for the purpose of the construction of any partof the works authorised by this Act, temporary bridges and temporaryramps for vehicular or pedestrian traffic over any part of the works or in 10 such other position as may be necessary to prevent undue interference withthe flow of traffic in the highway.Where any part of any highway has been broken up or disturbed by the nominated undertaker and not permanently stopped up or diverted, the nominated undertaker must— 15(a) make good the subsoil, foundations and surface of that part of the highway to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority, and(b) maintain the same to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority for such time as may reasonably be required for thepermanent reinstatement of the highway. 2015 (1)1617 (1)(2) The reinstatement of that part of the highway must be carried out by the nominated undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority in accordance with such requirements as to specification of material and standards of workmanship as may be prescribed for equivalent reinstatement work by regulations made under section 71 of the New Roads 25 and Street Works Act 1991.This paragraph applies where damage to any highway or property of the highway authority on or under any highway is caused by, or results from—(a) the construction of any work authorised by this Act, or(b) any act or omission of the nominated undertaker, its contractors, 30agents or employees whilst engaged upon such work.(2) In the case of damage to a highway, the nominated undertaker may make good such damage to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority.(3) The nominated undertaker must pay compensation to the highway authority— 35(a) in a case where the nominated undertaker does not make good such damage to a highway;(b) in the case of damage to property of the highway authority.The fact that any act or thing may have been done in accordance with plans approved by the highway authority must not (if it was not attributable to the 40 act, neglect or default of the highway authority or of any person in its employ or its contractors or agents) exonerate the nominated undertakerfrom any liability, or affect any claim for damages, under this Part or otherwise.Any dispute arising between the nominated undertaker and the highway 45 authority under this Part is to be determined by arbitration if—(a) the parties agree, or(b) the dispute relates to the amount of any sum payable under this Part,
￼￼￼396High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 1 — Highways and traffic￼but must otherwise be determined by a person appointed by the Secretary of State.(2) Any person appointed by the Secretary of State under sub-paragraph (1)must, in determining any dispute arising under this Part, have regard tosuch matters as may be specified by the Secretary of State on making the 5 appointment.PART 2ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS18 (1) The following provisions of this Part have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the nominated undertaker, or the Secretary of State as the 10 case may be, and the undertakers concerned.(2) In this Part—“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate toenable the undertakers to fulfil their functions as effectively as is achievable using the apparatus which the alternative apparatus is to 15 replace;“apparatus” means—(a) in the case of electricity undertakers, electric lines or electricalplant (as defined in the Electricity Act 1989) belonging to, ormaintained by, such undertakers; 20(b) in the case of gas undertakers, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to, or maintained by, a gas transporterfor the purposes of the conveyance or storage of gas;(c) in the case of water undertakers—(i) mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to, or 25 maintained by, such undertakers for the purposes ofwater supply; and(ii) any water mains or service pipes (or part of a watermain or service pipe) that is the subject of an agreement to adopt made under section 51A of the 30 Water Industry Act 1991;(d) in the case of sewerage undertakers—(i) any sewer, drain or works vested in a sewerageundertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the 35 meaning of section 219 of that Act) or sewer outfalland any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain orwork; and(ii) any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a 40 notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4)of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 of that Act;and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodgedor which gives or will give access to apparatus; 45 “construction” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relayingand removal and, in its application to works which include orcomprise any operation, means the carrying out of that operation; “functions” includes powers and duties;
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers397￼19 (1)The following provisions of this paragraph have effect in any case where the Secretary of State or the nominated undertaker, in exercise of the powers ofthis Act, acquires any interest in or temporarily occupies any land in which 30 apparatus is placed.“in” in a context referring to apparatus in land includes under, over, across, along or upon land;“plans” includes sections and method statements;“removed” and “removal” in a context referring to the removal of apparatus includes the disconnection and abandonment of 5 apparatus where the retention of decommissioned apparatus wouldnot affect the construction and use of the works authorised by thisAct;“service obligations” means any service obligation imposed on the undertakers by or under the enactments authorising them to carry on 10 their respective undertakings;“undertakers” means any of the following, namely, a licence holderwithin the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989, a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986, a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991, a 15 sewerage undertaker within Part 1 of that Act and any local authority which is a relevant authority for the purposes of section 97of that Act; and, in relation to any apparatus, means the undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.(3) Except in paragraphs 26(3) and 27, the provisions of this Part are not to apply 20 to any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the nominated undertaker and the undertakers are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 ofthe New Roads and Street Works Act 1991.(4) Theexerciseofthepowersunderparagraphs2to6ofSchedule2inrelationto apparatus to which this Part applies is subject to paragraph 25 of this Part, 25 and paragraphs 28 and 29 of this Part apply instead of paragraph 14 of Schedule 2 in relation to the exercise of those powers.(2) Unless a certificate is issued by the appropriate Ministers under sub- paragraph (3) the apparatus must not be removed under this Part, and anyright of the undertakers to maintain, repair, renew, adjust, alter or inspectthe apparatus in that land is not to be extinguished until any necessary 35 alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the undertakers.(3) Where the appropriate Ministers certify in relation to any apparatus that—(a) failure to remove the apparatus would cause undue delay to the construction of the scheduled works, and 40(b) the removal of the apparatus before the provision of alternative apparatus in accordance with this paragraph would not substantially prejudice the ability of the undertakers to meet any relevant service obligations,that apparatus may be removed (or required by the nominated undertaker 45 to be removed) under this Part before any necessary alternative apparatushas been constructed or is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the undertakers.(4) In this paragraph “appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of State for Transport acting jointly with either the Secretary of State for Environment, 50
￼￼￼39820 (1)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers￼21 (1)Any alternative apparatus to be constructed by the undertakers in pursuance of paragraph 20 in land held or used, or intended for use, by the 30 nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act orheld by the Secretary of State, or in which the undertakers have obtained the necessary facilities and rights, must be constructed in such manner, and insuch line or situation and in accordance with such programme, as is—(a) agreed between the undertakers and the nominated undertaker with 35 a view to securing, among other things, the efficient implementationof the necessary work, the avoidance of unnecessary delay and the continued fulfilment by the undertakers of their service obligationsto a standard no less than that achieved prior to the removal of theapparatus which the alternative apparatus replaces, or 40(b) in default of agreement, determined in accordance with paragraph31.22 (1)of Phase One of High Speed 2.This paragraph applies where— 50Food and Rural Affairs or the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change.This paragraph applies where—(a) the nominated undertaker for the purpose of constructing any work authorised by this Act in, on or under any land, requires the removal 5 of any apparatus placed in that land, and gives the undertakers notless than 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with aplan of the proposed work, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed, or(b) in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers of this Act, the 10 undertakers reasonably require to remove any apparatus.(2) Whereitisreasonablypracticabletodoso,thenominatedundertakerorthe Secretary of State must afford the undertakers the requisite facilities andrights for the construction of any necessary alternative apparatus in otherland which is available for the purpose and which is held or used, or 15 intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act or held by the Secretary of State, or in whicheither of them has sufficient rights or interests and subsequently for the maintenance, repair, renewal and inspection of such apparatus.(3) Sub-paragraph (4) applies where facilities and rights required for the 20 construction of apparatus under sub-paragraph (2) are to be afforded elsewhere than in such other land and neither the nominated undertaker northe Secretary of State is able to afford such facilities and rights.(4) The undertakers must, on receipt of a written notice from the nominated undertaker that this sub-paragraph applies, as soon as reasonably possible 25 use their best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights; and neither the nominated undertaker nor the Secretary of State is obliged to provide such facilities and rights in the other land.(2) If the undertakers fail to comply with an agreement made under sub- paragraph (1), or with a determination under paragraph 31, they must compensate the nominated undertaker in respect of any loss or damage 45 directly resulting from the failure, other than loss or damage arising from matters outside the reasonable control of the undertakers or loss of, or arising from delayed receipt of, operating revenue due to delayed opening
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers399￼23 (1)This paragraph applies where the nominated undertaker gives notice to the undertakers that it desires to carry out any part of so much of the work necessary in connection with the construction of the alternative apparatus, 20 or the removal of the apparatus required to be removed, as is or will be situated in any lands—(a) held or used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act, or(b) held by the Secretary of State. 2524 (1)This paragraph applies where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part,the nominated undertaker or the Secretary of State affords to the undertakers facilities and rights for the construction, maintenance, repair, 40 renewal and inspection of alternative apparatus on land—(a) held or used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act, or(b) held by the Secretary of State.(a) the manner of construction and the line and situation of any necessary alternative apparatus have been agreed or determined as provided under paragraph 21, and(b) any such facilities and rights as are referred to in paragraph 20 havebeen granted to or obtained by the undertakers, or an undertaking 5 has been given that such facilities or rights will be granted.(2) The undertakers must proceed with all reasonable despatch to—(a) construct and bring into operation the alternative apparatus, and(b) remove any apparatus required by the nominated undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part. 10(3) If the undertakers fail to comply with sub-paragraph (2)(b), the nominated undertaker may remove the apparatus.(4) Following the removal of apparatus under the provisions of this Part, or its abandonment, any rights of the undertakers relating to that apparatus in orover the land in which it was or is situated are extinguished and all 15 responsibility of the undertakers for any apparatus which is abandoned is tocease.(2) Suchwork,insteadofbeingcarriedoutbytheundertakers,mustbecarried out by the nominated undertaker—(a) in accordance with plans and specifications and in a position agreed between the undertakers and the nominated undertaker, or, in default of agreement, determined in accordance with paragraph 31, 30 and(b) with all reasonable despatch under the superintendence (if given) and to the reasonable satisfaction of the undertakers.(3) Nothinginthisparagraphauthorisesthenominatedundertakertocarryoutany connection to or disconnection of any existing apparatus or to carry out 35 any works associated with a connection or disconnection within 600 millimetres of the point of connection or disconnection.(2) Those facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions 45 as may be—(a) agreed between the nominated undertaker or, as the case may be, the Secretary of State, and the undertakers, or
￼￼￼400High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers(b) in default of agreement, determined in accordance with paragraph 31.￼25 (1)Not less than 28 days before commencing to construct any work authorisedby this Act which is near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removalof which has not been required by the nominated undertaker under 40 paragraph 20, the nominated undertaker must submit to the undertakers aplan and description of the work and of any protective measures which the nominated undertaker proposes to take in respect of that apparatus, together with a specification of such measures where appropriate.(3) In determining such terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus, a person making a determination under paragraph 31 must haveregard to any template provisions issued by the appropriate Ministers and 5 determined in accordance with sub-paragraph (4); and must—(a) give effect to all reasonable requirements of the nominated undertaker for ensuring the safety and efficient operation of theworks authorised by this Act and for securing any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus which may be 10 required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the nominated undertaker or the use of the same, and(b) have regard to the undertakers’ ability to fulfil their service obligations.(4) For the purposes of determining the matters under sub-paragraph (3) the 15 appropriate Ministers must consult the undertakers to which paragraph 24may apply on the form of the proposed template provisions, and any objections to the form of those provisions which have not been resolvedwithin six months after this Act comes into force must be referred to an independent person acting as an expert appointed to make a final 20 determination as to the form of the template provisions.(5) The independent person making a determination under sub-paragraph (4)is to be appointed by the President of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and in making that determination that person must have regardto the matters specified in sub-paragraph (3)(a) and (b). 25(6) Ifthefacilitiesandrightstobeaffordedbythenominatedundertakerorthe Secretary of State in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, aremore or less favourable on the whole to the undertakers than the facilities,rights, terms and conditions applying to the apparatus to be removed, 30 compensation must be paid to or by the nominated undertaker or the Secretary of State to or by the undertakers in respect of the difference as is reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the case.(7) In this paragraph “the appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of Statefor Transport acting jointly with the Secretary of State for Environment, 35 Food and Rural Affairs and the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change.(2) The work must be constructed only in accordance with the plan and 45 description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be made by the undertakers for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus or for securingaccess to the apparatus, and the undertakers are to be entitled by their officerto watch and inspect the construction of the work. 50
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers401￼26 (1)If in consequence of the exercise of the powers of this Act the access to any apparatus is materially obstructed the nominated undertaker must, so far as 20 reasonably practicable, provide alternative means of access to such apparatus which is no less convenient than the access enjoyed by the undertakers prior to the obstruction.2728 (1)(3) If the undertakers within 14 days after the submission to them of any suchplan and description, in consequence of the works proposed by the nominated undertaker, reasonably require the removal of any apparatusand give written notice to the nominated undertaker of that requirement,this Part has effect as if the removal of such apparatus had been required by 5 the nominated undertaker under paragraph 20.(4) Nothing in sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) precludes the nominated undertakerfrom submitting at any time, or from time to time, but in no case less than 28days before commencing the construction of the work, a new plan and description of it in lieu of the plan and description previously submitted, 10 and having done so the provisions of those sub-paragraphs apply to and in respect of the new plan and description.(5) The nominated undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraphs(1) to (3) in a case of emergency but in such a case it must give notice to the undertakers as soon as reasonably practicable and a plan and description of 15 those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently, and must comply with those sub-paragraphs so far as reasonably practicable in the circumstances.(2) The nominated undertaker must, so far as is reasonably practicable, so exercise its powers under paragraphs 2 to 6 of Schedule 2 as not to obstruct 25 or render less convenient the access to any apparatus.(3) Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highwayunder paragraph 6 of Schedule 4, the undertakers may do all such works andthings in any such highway as may be reasonably necessary to enable themto inspect, repair, maintain, renew, remove or use any apparatus which at 30 the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.Where, in consequence of this Act, any part of any highway in which any apparatus is situate ceases to be part of a highway, the undertakers may exercise the same rights of access to such apparatus as they enjoyed immediately before the passing of this Act, but nothing in this paragraph is 35 to affect any right of the nominated undertaker or of the undertakers to require removal of that apparatus under this Part or the power of the nominated undertaker to construct works in accordance with paragraph 25.Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the nominated undertaker must repay to the undertakers the reasonable expenses incurred 40 by the undertakers in, or in connection with—(a) the removal and relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus under any provision of this Part,(b) the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus in 45 consequence of the exercise by the nominated undertaker of anypower under this Act, and(c) any other work or thing rendered reasonably necessary in consequence of the exercise by the nominated undertaker of anysuch power. 50
￼￼￼402High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers￼29 (1)(2) The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that value being calculated after removal.(3) Sub-paragraph (4) applies where, in pursuance of the provisions of this Part—(a)(b)5alternative apparatus of better type, or greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worsetype, of smaller capacity or of smaller dimensions, except where thishas been solely due to using the nearest currently available type, or apparatus (whether existing apparatus or alternative apparatus) is 10 placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was situated.(4) Iftheplacingofapparatusofthattypeorcapacityorofthosedimensions,orthe placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed bythe nominated undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined to 15 be necessary in accordance with paragraph 31, then, if it involves cost in the construction of works under paragraph 23 exceeding that which would havebeen involved if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacityor dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amountwhich apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to the undertakers 20 by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess(5) For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (3) and (4)—(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length ofexisting apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing apparatus except in a 25 case where the apparatus as so extended serves a purpose (either additional to or instead of that served by the existing apparatus)which was not served by the existing apparatus, and(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined tobe necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of 30 a manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.(6) An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to the undertakers in respect of works by virtue of this paragraph must, if theworks include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for 35 apparatus placed more than seven and a half years earlier so as to confer onthe undertakers any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal ofthe apparatus or of the system of which it forms part in the ordinary course,be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.(7) In any case where work is carried out by the nominated undertaker 40 pursuant to paragraph 23 and, if such work had been carried out by the undertakers, the repayment made to the undertakers under this paragraphwould fall to be reduced pursuant to sub-paragraphs (3) to (6), the undertakers must pay to the nominated undertaker such sum as representsthe amount of that reduction. 45This paragraph applies where, by reason of the construction of any of the works authorised by this Act, or any subsidence resulting from any of those works, any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 2 — Electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers403￼3031 (1)32 (1)PART 3ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKSThe following provisions of this Part have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the nominated undertaker, or the Secretary of State as the 45for the purposes of those works) or property of the undertakers, or there is any interruption in any service provided by any of the undertakers(2) Subject to sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), the nominated undertaker must—(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the undertakers in making good such damage or restoring the supply 5(b) make reasonable compensation to the undertakers for loss sustained by them by reason of any such damage or interruption, and(c) indemnify the undertakers against claims, demands, proceedings,and damages which may be made or taken against, or recoveredfrom the undertakers by reason of any such damage or interruption. 10(3) Nothing in sub-paragraph (2) is to impose any liability on the nominated undertaker with respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of the undertakers, their officers, servants, contractors or agents.(4) The undertakers must give the nominated undertaker reasonable notice of 15 any such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of any suchclaim or demand must be made without the consent of the nominated undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, must have the sole conductof any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resistthe claim or demand. 20In any case where Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (“Network Rail“) is the nominated undertaker the provisions of this Part have effect subject to any existing agreement between Network Rail and an undertaker relating to apparatus laid or erected on land belonging to Network Rail.Any dispute arising between the nominated undertaker and the undertakers 25 under this Part is to be determined by arbitration if—(a) the parties agree, or(b) the dispute relates to the amount of any sum payable under this Part,but otherwise is to be determined by a person appointed by the appropriate Ministers. 30(2) Any person appointed by the appropriate Ministers under sub-paragraph (1) must, in determining any dispute arising under this Part, have regard to such matters as may be specified by the appropriate Ministers on making the appointment.(3) The costs and fees of the person determining the dispute and the costs of the 35 parties to the dispute are to be allocated between the parties as that personmay direct.(4) In this paragraph “the appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of Statefor Transport acting jointly with either the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs or the Secretary of State for Energy 40 and Climate Change.
￼￼￼404High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 3 — Electronic communications code networks￼33 (1)3435 (1)case may be, and an operator of an electronic communications code network.(2) In this Part—“alternative apparatus” means apparatus provided in replacement of electronic communications apparatus in connection with the 5 construction of the authorised works;“the appropriate Ministers” means the Secretary of State for Transport and the Secretary of State for Culture Media and Sport acting jointly;“the authorised works” means the works authorised by this Act; “construction” includes installation (and “construct” is to be construed 10accordingly);“electronic communications code” means the electroniccommunications code contained in Schedule 2 to the Telecommunications Act 1984;“operator”, “electronic communications apparatus”, and “electronic 15 communications code network” have the meanings given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 17 to the Communications Act 2003.Subject to sub-paragraph (2), paragraph 23 of the electronic communications code applies for the purposes of the authorised works.(2) Paragraphs 21 and 23 of the electronic communications code do not apply 20 for the purposes of the authorised works—(a) insofar as such works are regulated by the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 or any regulation made under that Act,(b) where the nominated undertaker exercises a right under subsection(4)(b) of section 272 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 or 25 under an order made under that section to remove electronic communications apparatus, or(c) in respect of any matter regulated by sub-paragraphs (3) to (8) of paragraph 35.The temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under paragraph 6 30 of Schedule 4 does not affect any right of an operator under paragraph 9 ofthe electronic communications code in respect of any apparatus which at thetime of the stopping up or diversion is in the highway.Where a highway is stopped up under paragraph 2 or 3 of Schedule 4, any operator of an electronic communications code network whose electronic 35 communications apparatus is under, over, in, on, along or across that highway may exercise the same rights of access in order to inspect, maintain,adjust, repair or alter that apparatus as if this Act had not been passed, butthis is subject to sub-paragraph (2).(2) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) affects any right of the nominated undertaker 40 or the operator to require removal of that apparatus under this Part or thepower of the nominated undertaker to alter or remove apparatus in accordance with paragraph 23 of the electronic communications code.(3) The nominated undertaker must give not less than 28 days’ notice of its intention to stop up any highway under paragraph 2 or 3 of Schedule 4 to 45 any operator of an electronic communications code network whose apparatus is under, over, in, on, along or across the highway.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 3 — Electronic communications code networks405￼(4) Where a notice under sub-paragraph (3) has been given, the operator, if it reasonably considers that it is necessary for the safe and efficient operationand maintenance of the apparatus, may, and if reasonably requested so to doby the nominated undertaker in the notice, must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the service of the notice— 5(a) remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution for it in such other position as the operator may reasonably determine and have power to place it, or(b) provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatusand place it in such other position as described in paragraph (a). 10(5) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph the nominated undertaker must pay to any operator of an electronic communications code network an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by the operator in or in connection with—(a) the execution of relocation works required in consequence of the 15 stopping up of the highway, and(b) the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of relocation works.(6) Sub-paragraph (7) applies where—(a) in the course of the execution of relocation works under sub- 20 paragraph (4)—(i) apparatus of better type, greater capacity or greater dimensions is placed in substitution for existing apparatus ofworse type, smaller capacity or smaller dimensions, exceptwhere this has been solely due to using the nearest currently 25 available type, capacity or dimension, or(ii) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which existing apparatus was, and(b) the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those 30 dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case maybe, is not agreed by the nominated undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined to be necessary in consequence of the construction of the authorised works in order to ensure the continued efficient operation of the electronic communications code 35 network of the operator.(7) If the execution of the relocation works involves cost exceeding that whichwould have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the existingtype, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this paragraph would be payable to the operator 40 by virtue of sub-paragraph (5) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.(8) For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (6) and (7)—(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing apparatus except in a 45 case where the apparatus as so extended provides more than an equivalent service, and(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined tobe necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or ofa manhole (in either case of such type, capacity and dimensions as is 50
￼￼￼406High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 3 — Electronic communications code networksreasonably appropriate) is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.￼36(9) The amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an operator in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (5) (and having regard, where it applies, to sub-paragraph (7)) must, if the works include the 5 placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed morethan seven and a half years earlier so as to confer on the operator any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.(10) Sub-paragraphs (5) to (9) do not apply where the authorised works 10 constitute major transport works or major highway works for the purpose ofPart 3 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 (including that provisionas applied by paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Act), but instead—(a) the allowable costs of any relocation works are to be determined in accordance with section 85 of that Act (sharing of costs of necessary 15 measures) and any regulations for the time being having effect underthat section, and(b) the allowable costs are to be borne by the nominated undertaker andthe operator in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations. 20(1) Where the nominated undertaker or the Secretary of State affords to an operator facilities and rights for the construction, maintenance, repair, renewal and inspection of alternative apparatus on land held or used, or intended for use, by the nominated undertaker for the purposes of its undertaking under this Act or held by the Secretary of State, those facilities 25 and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the nominated undertaker or, as the case may be, the Secretary of State, and the operator or, in default of agreement, determinedin accordance with paragraph 39.(2) In determining such terms and conditions, a person making a determination 30 under paragraph 39 must have regard to any template provisions issued bythe appropriate Ministers and determined in accordance with sub- paragraph (3); and must—(a) give effect to all reasonable requirements of the nominated undertaker for ensuring the safety and efficient operation of the 35 authorised works and for securing any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus which may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the nominated undertaker or the use of the same; and(b) have regard to the operator’s ability to fulfil its service obligations. 40(3) For the purposes of determining the matters under sub-paragraph (2) the appropriate Ministers must consult the operators to which paragraph 36may apply on the form of the proposed template provisions, and any objections to the form of those provisions which have not been resolvedwithin six months after this Act comes into force must be referred to an 45 independent person acting as an expert appointed to make a final determination as to the form of the template provisions.(4) The independent person making a determination under sub-paragraph (3) is to be appointed by the President of the Royal Institution of Chartered
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 3 — Electronic communications code networks407￼(5)37 (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)Surveyors and in making that determination that person must have regard to the matters specified in sub-paragraph (2)(a) and (b).Ifthefacilitiesandrightstobeaffordedbythenominatedundertakerorthe Secretary of State in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted are 5 more or less favourable on the whole to the operator than the facilities,rights, terms and conditions applying to the apparatus to be removed, compensation must be paid to or by the nominated undertaker or the Secretary of State to or by the operator in respect of the difference as is reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the case. 10Sub-paragraph (2) applies where, by reason of the construction of the authorised works or any subsidence resulting from any of those works—(a) damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus, otherthan apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary inview of its intended removal for the purposes of those works, 15(b) damage is caused to property of the operator of an electronic communications code network, or(c) there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by the operator.The nominated undertaker must— 20(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator in making good such damage or restoring the supply,(b) make reasonable compensation to the operator for loss sustained by it, and(c) indemnify the operator against all claims, demands, proceedings, or 25 damages which may be made or taken against, or recovered from,the operator, by reason of any such damage or interruption.But this is subject to sub-paragraphs (3) to (5).Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply in connection with any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the nominated undertaker and the 30 operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the New Roads andStreet Works Act 1991.Nothing in sub-paragraph (2) is to impose any liability on the nominated undertaker with respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of the operator, its officers, servants, 35 contractors or agents.The operator must give the nominated undertaker reasonable notice of anysuch claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of any such claimor demand is to be made without the consent of the nominated undertakerwhich, if it withholds such consent, is to have the sole conduct of any 40 settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claimor demand.This paragraph applies instead of paragraph 14 of Schedule 2 in relation to the exercise of the powers of paragraphs 2 to 6 of that Schedule.In any case where Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (“Network Rail“) is 45 the nominated undertaker the provisions of this Part have effect subject toany existing agreement between Network Rail and an operator relating to apparatus laid or erected on land belonging to Network Rail.38
￼￼￼40839 (1)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 3 — Electronic communications code networksAny dispute arising between the nominated undertaker and an operator under this Part is to be determined by arbitration if—(a) the parties agree, or(b) the dispute relates to the amount of any sum payable under this Part,but is otherwise to be determined by a person appointed by the appropriate 5 Ministers.￼4142 (1)“the canal” means any canal or waterway owned or managed by Canal 20 & River Trust, and includes any works connected therewith for the maintenance of which Canal & River Trust is responsible and anylands held or used by Canal & River Trust for the purposes of thecanal including the towpath beside a canal or waterway;“construction” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing and 25relaying and includes removal;“plans” includes sections, drawings, specifications and methodstatements;“specified work” means so much of any permanent or temporary work authorised by this Act as is in, across, under, or within 15 metres of, 30 or may in any way affect, the canal.The Secretary of State must not under the powers under section 4(1) acquire compulsorily any land of Canal & River Trust or any easement or other rightover such land other than such land, or easements or other rights, as is reasonably necessary for, or in connection with, the construction, 35 maintenance or operation of works authorised by this Act having regardalso to the statutory duties of Canal & River Trust.Before beginning to construct any specified work, the nominated undertakermust submit to Canal & River Trust plans of the work and such further particulars available to it as Canal & River Trust may within 14 days of the 40 submission of the plans reasonably require.(2) Any person appointed by the appropriate Ministers under sub-paragraph(1) must, in determining any dispute arising under this Part, have regard tosuch matters as may be specified by the appropriate Ministers on making the appointment. 10(3) Thecostsandfeesofthepersondeterminingthedisputeandthecostsofthe parties to the dispute are to be allocated between the parties as that person may direct.PART 4CANAL & RIVER TRUST 15The following provisions of this Part have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the nominated undertaker, or the Secretary of State as the case may be, and Canal & River Trust.40 (1)(2) In this Part—(2) Anyspecifiedworkmustnotbeconstructedexceptinaccordancewithsuch plans as may be approved in writing by Canal & River Trust or determined under paragraph 50.(3) Any approval of Canal & River Trust required under this paragraph must 45 not be unreasonably withheld and—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 4 — Canal & River Trust409￼43 (1)(2)44 (1)(2)(a) is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused(with an indication of the grounds for refusal) within 28 days of the submission of the plans for approval or where further particulars are submitted under paragraph 42(1), within 28 days of the submissionof those particulars; and 5(b) may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as Canal & River Trust may make for the purpose of ensuring the safety or stability of the canal, including requirements as to the construction of protective works.Any specified work, and any protective works required by Canal & River 10 Trust under paragraph 42(3)(b), must be constructed with all reasonable despatch to the reasonable satisfaction of Canal & River Trust, and in such manner as to cause as little damage to the canal as may be reasonably practicable and as little interference as may be reasonably practicable withthe passage of vessels using the canal and use of the towpath, and Canal & 15 River Trust is to be entitled by its officer at all reasonable times, on givingsuch notice as may be reasonable in the circumstances, to inspect the construction of such work or works.ThenominatedundertakermustgivetoCanal&RiverTrustnotlessthan28days’ notice of its intention to commence construction of any specified work 20 or any protective works and also, except in emergency (when the nominated undertaker is to give such notice as may be reasonably practicable), of its intention to carry out any works for the repair or maintenance of any specified work insofar as such works of repair or maintenance affect or interfere with the canal. 25The nominated undertaker must not deposit any polluting material on, in or over the canal and must not without the consent of Canal & River Trust—(a) deposit any other materials on, in or over the canal (other than materials comprised in a specified work); or(b) notwithstanding anything in this Act, discharge any water directly 30 or indirectly into the canal.Any consent of Canal & River Trust required under this paragraph is not to be unreasonably withheld and—(a) is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refusedwithin 28 days of the submission of the request for it; and 35(b) may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as Canal & River Trust may make—(i) in the case of a deposit, so as to ensure that the use of the canal is not obstructed or rendered less safe, and(ii) in the case of a discharge, concerning the reimbursement by 40 the nominated undertaker of expenses incurred by Canal &River Trust in disposing of the water so discharged, being expenses which Canal & River Trust would not have incurred but for the discharge.In its application to the discharge of water into the canal, paragraph 8(5) of 45 Schedule 2 has effect subject to the terms of any conditions attached to the consent under paragraph 44(2) and, where such discharge includes a depositto which consent has been given under paragraph 44(1), to any conditions attached to that consent.45
￼￼￼41046 (1)High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 4 — Canal & River TrustIf as a result of the construction of any specified work any part of the towpath or access way beside the canal, or any public right of way givingaccess to that path or way, is temporarily closed to pedestrians or cyclistsand there is no way which provides a reasonable alternative, the nominated undertaker must, so far as reasonably practicable and to the extent that it is 5 consistent with safety, provide a substitute path or paths for such time as the closure continues.￼47 (1)If any canal work is abandoned, Canal & River Trust may by notice require 10 the nominated undertaker to take such reasonable steps as may be specifiedin the notice to remove the work and (to such extent as Canal & River Trust reasonably requires) to restore the site to its former condition.48 (1)The nominated undertaker must indemnify Canal & River Trust from all claims, demands, proceedings or damages, which may be made or given against, or recovered from Canal & River Trust by reason of any damage tothe canal which is caused by the construction of any specified work or 45 protective work or any act or omission of the nominated undertaker, its contractors, agents or employees whilst engaged upon the work and fromany costs reasonably incurred in making good such damage.(2) This paragraph is without prejudice to the requirements of paragraph 6(2) or (5) of Schedule 4.(2) If any canal work is in such condition that it is, or is likely to become, a danger to or to interfere with navigation, Canal & River Trust may by notice 15 require the nominated undertaker to take such reasonable steps as may be specified in the notice—(a) to repair and restore the work or part of it, or(b) if the nominated undertaker so elects, to remove the work and (tosuch extent as Canal & River Trust reasonably requires) to restore the 20 site to its former condition.(3) If—(a) a work which consists of a canal work and a non-canal work is abandoned or falls into decay; and(b) the non-canal work is in such a condition as to interfere with the right 25 of navigation in the relevant canal or as to interfere with the rights ofaccess or use of land adjacent to the relevant canal,Canal & River Trust may include the non-canal work, or any part of it, in any notice under this paragraph.(4) If after such reasonable period as may be specified in a notice under this 30 paragraph the nominated undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the requirements of the notice or after beginning has failed tomake reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, Canal& River Trust may carry out the works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so doing is to be recoverable from 35 the nominated undertaker.(5) Inthisparagraph“canalwork”meanssomuchofanyspecifiedworkoranyother work of which the nominated undertaker is in possession under the powers of this Act as is in or over a canal owned or managed by Canal &River Trust and “non-canal work” means so much of any such work as is not 40 in or over a canal.
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 4 — Canal & River Trust411￼49 (1)Nothing in paragraph 48 is to impose any liability on the nominated undertaker with respect to any damage to the extent that it is attributable tothe act, neglect or default of Canal & River Trust, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 1050 (1)Any dispute arising between the nominated undertaker and Canal & River Trust under this Part of this Schedule is to be determined by arbitration if—(a) the parties agree, or(b) the dispute relates to the amount of any sum payable under this Part, 20but must otherwise be determined by a person appointed by the appropriate Ministers.51 (1)PART 5 30 LAND DRAINAGE, FLOOD DEFENCE, WATER RESOURCES AND FISHERIESThe following provisions of this Part have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the nominated undertaker and the drainage authority concerned.(2) Canal & River Trust must give to the nominated undertaker reasonablenotice of any such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of anysuch claim or demand is to be made without the consent of the nominated undertaker which, if it notifies Canal & River Trust that it desires to do so, isto have the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any 5 proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.(2) Butthefactthatanyworkorthinghasbeenexecutedordoneinaccordancewith a plan approved or deemed to be approved by Canal & River Trust, orto its satisfaction, or in accordance with a determination under paragraph50, does not (in the absence of negligence on the part of Canal & River Trust,its officers, servants, contractors or agents) relieve the nominated 15 undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part.(2) Any person appointed by the appropriate Ministers under sub-paragraph(1) must, in determining any dispute arising under this Part, have regard tosuch matters as may be specified by the appropriate Ministers on making the 25 appointment.(3) In this paragraph, the reference to the appropriate Ministers is to the Secretary of State for Transport and the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs acting jointly.(2) In this Part— 35 “the Agency” means the Environment Agency;“a category 1 specified work” means so much of any permanent ortemporary work or operation authorised by this Act (which includes,for the avoidance of doubt, any dredging and any geotechnical investigations that may be undertaken) as is likely to— 40(a) affect any drainage work which is or includes a main river or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any main river,(b) affect the flow, purity or quality of water in any main river orother surface waters or ground water, or 45(c) affect the conservation, distribution or use of water resources;
￼￼￼412High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries“a category 2 specified work” means any of the following—(a) erecting any mill dam, weir or other like obstruction to the flow of any ordinary watercourse, or raising or otherwisealtering any such obstruction,(b) erecting a culvert in an ordinary watercourse, 5(c) altering a culvert in a manner that would be likely to affect the flow of an ordinary watercourse, or(d) altering, removing or replacing a structure or feature designated by a local drainage authority under Schedule 1 tothe Flood and Water Management Act 2010; 10“construction” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and “construct” and “constructed” are construed accordingly;“the drainage authority” means—(a) in relation to a category 1 specified work, the Agency; 15(b) in relation to a category 2 specified work, the drainage boardconcerned within the meaning of section 23 of the LandDrainage Act 1991;“drainage work” means any watercourse and any bank, wall,embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or 20 used for land drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring, and includes land which provides or is to provide flood storage capacityfor any watercourse;“fishery” means any waters containing fish and fish in, or migrating toor from such waters and the spawn, spawning grounds or food of 25 such fish;“local drainage authority” means a drainage authority other than the Agency;“a main river” and “ordinary watercourse” have the meanings given by respectively the Water Resources Act 1991 and the Land Drainage 30 Act 1991;“plans” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method statements;“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water 35 flows except a public sewer as defined by the Water Industry Act1991.(3) Where any approval is required under this Part from a local drainage authority, that authority must—(a) have regard, in imposing any conditions or requirements, to any 40 model conditions issued by the Agency (following consultation withthe other drainage authorities and the nominated undertaker);(b) consult the Agency in any case where it proposes to impose conditions or requirements, or to refuse approval, and must specifically seek the Agency’s advice concerning any proposal to 45 depart from the model conditions;(c) provide the nominated undertaker with reasons and supporting evidence in any case where it gives a decision which does not accordwith the view or advice of the Agency given in response to consultation under paragraph (b). 50￼
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries413￼52 (1)Before beginning to construct any specified work, the nominated undertaker must submit to the drainage authority plans of the work and such further particulars available to it as the drainage authority may within 28 days of the submission of the plans reasonably require.5354 (1)(2) Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with 5 such plans as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority, or determined under paragraph 61.(3) Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—(a) must not be unreasonably withheld,(b) is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused 10 within 56 days of the submission of the plans for approval or where further particulars are submitted under sub-paragraph (1), within 56days of the submission of those particulars, and(c) may be given subject to such reasonable requirements or conditionsas the drainage authority may make for the protection of any 15 drainage work or fishery or for the protection of water resources, orfor the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the discharge of its statutory environmental duties.The requirements which the drainage authority may make under paragraph52 include conditions requiring the nominated undertaker at its own 20 expense to construct such protective works (including any new works aswell as alterations to existing works) as are reasonably necessary—(a) to safeguard any drainage work against damage, or(b) to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is notimpaired and that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased, 25 by reason of the specified work.Any specified work, and all protective works required by the drainage authority under paragraph 52, must be constructed to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and an officer of the drainage authorityis entitled on giving such notice as may be reasonable in the circumstances, 30 to inspect and watch the construction of such works.(2) Thenominatedundertakermustgivetothedrainageauthoritynotlessthan14 days’ notice of its intention to commence construction of any specifiedwork and notice of its completion not later than 7 days after the date onwhich it is brought into use. 35(3) If any part of the works comprising a structure in, over or under a watercourse is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part, the drainage authority may by notice require the nominated undertaker at the nominated undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part or (if the nominated undertaker 40 so elects and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not tobe unreasonably withheld) to remove, alter or pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the site to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.(4) Subject to sub-paragraph (5), if within a reasonable period, being not less 45 than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (3) is servedupon the nominated undertaker, it has failed to begin taking steps to complywith the requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority
￼￼￼414High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries￼55 (1)Subject to sub-paragraph (5) the nominated undertaker must from the 10 commencement of the construction of the specified works maintain in goodrepair and condition and free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of deviation and on land held by the nominated undertaker for the purposes or in connection with the specified works, whether the drainage work is constructed under this Act or is already in 15 existence.56 (1)(a) drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or whichthe drainage authority or another person is under an obligation to maintain and is not prescribed by the powers of the Act from doing 40 so;(b) any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation authorised by the Act and carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Part.If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of any 45 such work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes is impaired, or that work is otherwise damaged, so as to require remedialaction, such impairment or damage must be made good by the nominated undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and if the nominated undertaker fails to do so, the drainage authority may make good 50may execute the works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so doing is to be recoverable from the nominated undertaker.(5) In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (3) is properly applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that 5 sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such anotice, the drainage authority must not, except in an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally determined.(2) Ifanysuchdrainageworkisnotmaintainedtothereasonablesatisfactionofthe drainage authority, the drainage authority may by notice require the nominated undertaker to repair and restore the work, or any part of it, or (ifthe nominated undertaker so elects and the drainage authority in writing 20 consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the drainage work and restore the site to its former condition, tosuch extent and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.(3) If, within a reasonable period being not less than 28 days beginning with the 25 date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub- paragraph (2) on the nominated undertaker, the nominated undertaker hasfailed to begin taking steps to comply with the reasonable requirements ofthe notice and has not subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may do what is 30 necessary for such compliance and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so doing from the nominated undertaker.(4) In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of anotice served under sub-paragraph (2), the drainage authority must notexcept in a case of emergency exercise the powers of sub-paragraph (3) until 35 the dispute has been finally determined.(5) This paragraph does not apply to—
￼￼￼High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) BillSchedule 31 — Protective provisionsPart 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries415￼57 (1)The nominated undertaker must take all such measures as may be 15 reasonably practicable to prevent any interruption of the free passage of fishin any fishery during the construction of any specified work.58 (1)The nominated undertaker must indemnify the drainage authority from all claims, demands, proceedings or damages, which may be made or taken 40 against, or recovered from the drainage authority by reason of—(a) any damage to any drainage work so as to impair its efficiency for flood defence purposes,(b) any damage to a fishery,(c) any raising or lowering of the water table in land adjoining the works 45 authorised by this Act or adjoining any sewers, drains and watercourses, or(d) any flooding or increased flooding of any such lands,the same and recover from the nominated undertaker the expense reasonably incurred by it in doing so.(2) Inanycasewhereimmediateactionbythedrainageauthorityisreasonably required in order to secure that the imminent flood risk is avoided or reduced, the drainage authority may take such steps as are reasonable for 5 the purpose, and may recover from the nominated undertaker the reasonable cost of so doing provided that notice specifying those steps isserved on the nominated undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable afterthe drainage authority has taken, or commenced to take, the steps specifiedin the notice. 10(3) Nothing in paragraphs 54, 55 or 56 authorises the drainage authority to execute works on or affecting an operational railway without the prior consent in writing of the nominated undertaker, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.(2) If by reason of—(a) the construction of any specified work, or(b) the failure of any such work, 20damage to a fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the nominated undertaker requiring it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicableto make good the damage or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage. 25(3) If, within such time as may be reasonably practicable for that purpose afterthe receipt of written notice from the Agency of any damage or expected damage to a fishery, the nominated undertaker fails to take such steps as are described in sub-paragraph (2), the Agency may take those steps and may recover from the nominated undertaker the expense reasonably incurred by 30 it in doing so.(4) InanycasewhereimmediateactionbytheAgencyisreasonablyrequiredinorder to secure that the risk of damage to a fishery is avoided or reduced, the Agency may take such steps as are reasonable for the purpose, and may recover from the nominated undertaker the reasonable cost of so doing 35 provided that notice specifying those steps is served on the nominated undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or commenced to take, the steps specified in the notice.
￼￼￼416High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill Schedule 31 — Protective provisions Part 5 — Land drainage, flood defence, water resources and fisheries￼596061(2)which is caused by, or results from, the construction of any specified work or any act or omission of the nominated undertaker, its contractors, agents or employees whilst engaged upon the work.The drainage authority must give to the nominated undertaker reasonablenotice of any such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of any 5 such claim or demand is to be made without the consent of the nominated undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, is to have the sole conduct ofany settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist theclaim or demand.Nothing in paragraph 58 requires the nominated undertaker to indemnify 10 the drainage authority in respect of any claim, demand, proceedings or damages which the drainage authority could reasonably make, take againstor recover from any other person.The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done in accordancewith a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage authority, 15 or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any determination under paragraph 51, does not (in the absence of negligence on the part of the drainage authority, its officers, contractors or agents) relieve the nominated undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part.Any dispute arising between the nominated undertaker and the drainage 20 authority under this Part is to be determined by arbitration.
High Speed Rail (London - West Midlands) Bill￼￼ABILLTo make provision for a railway between Euston in London and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Handsacre in Staffordshire, with a spur from Old Oak Common in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham to a junction with the Channel Tunnel Rail Link at York Way in the London Borough of Islington and a spur from Water Orton in Warwickshire to Curzon Street in Birmingham; and for connected purposes.Presented by Secretary Patrick McLoughlin supported bythe Prime Minister,the Deputy Prime Minister,Mr Chancellor of the Exchequer, Secretary Theresa May, Secretary Vince Cable, Secretary Iain Duncan Smith, Secretary Eric Pickles, Secretary Owen Paterson, Secretary Edward Davey, Mr Robert Goodwill.Ordered, by The House of Commons, to be Printed, 5 June 2014.© Parliamentary copyright House of Commons 2014This publication may be reproduced under the terms of the Open Parliament Licence, which is published at www.parliament.uk/site-information/copyright.￼￼Bill 2PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS LONDON — THE STATIONERY OFFICE LIMITED Printed in the United Kingdom byThe Stationery Office Limited£x.xx(xxxxxx) 55/4 xxxbarxxx